Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Cream together the butter, white sugar, and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Dissolve baking soda in hot water.  Add to batter along with salt. Stir in flour, chocolate chips, and nuts. Drop by large spoonfuls onto ungreased pans.
Bake for about 10 minutes in the preheated oven, or until edges are nicely browned.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Stir in the peanut butter, vanilla and egg until well blended. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the batter just until moistened. Mix in the oats and chocolate chips until evenly distributed. Drop by tablespoonfuls on to lightly greased cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven, until the edges start to brown. Cool on cookie sheets for about 5 minutes before transferring to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a mixing bowl, cream butter and sugars. Add pudding mix, eggs and vanilla. Combine flour and baking soda; add to creamed mixture and mix well. Fold in chocolate chips.
Drop by teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until lightly browned.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar, and white sugar. Mix in the eggs and vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt; add to butter mixture, and stir until just blended. With a large wooden spoon, stir in the white, milk, and semi-sweet chocolate chips. Stir in the walnuts, pecans, and almonds. Drop dough by heaping spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on the baking sheet before transferring to wire racks to cool completely.
In large bowl, beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla until light and fluffy.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well.
Gradually add flour, salt, and baking soda, beating until well blended.  Stir in chocolate chips and nuts.
Spread in greased 14 inch round pizza pan.  Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 20-25 minutes.  Cool cookie in pan on a cooling rack.  Decorate as desired.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside.
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar, and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the egg and vanilla. Gradually stir in the sifted ingredients, then stir in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Stir together the flour, baking soda, salt and instant pudding powder; set aside.
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Blend in the eggs and vanilla. Gradually mix in the dry ingredients until just blended. Stir in the chocolate chips by hand using a wooden spoon. Scoop cookies using an ice cream scoop or by heaping tablespoons. Place cookies at least 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until lightly golden. Cool on baking sheets for a few minutes before removing to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream together the shortening, butter, white sugar, and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda, and salt; stir into the creamed mixture.  Stir in the pecans and chocolate chips. Use a measuring tablespoon to round dough into balls. Don't roll the balls, just make them rounded. Place onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven, or until centers are set and very lightly browned. Don't overbake. Cool 2 to 3 minutes before removing from baking sheets. Make sure you have lots of ice cold milk!!!
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream together the butter and sugar until smooth. Beat in the vanilla and eggs one at a time. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the sugar mixture. Finally, mix in the chocolate chips. Drop by tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, or until edges are golden. Remove from baking sheet to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line cookie sheets* with Reynolds Parchment Paper; set aside. On another sheet of Reynolds(R) Parchment Paper, combine flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon; set aside.
Beat together butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar in a large mixing bowl, with an electric mixer, until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs and vanilla.
Add flour mixture gradually to butter mixture; beat until well blended. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoons onto parchment-lined cookie sheets.
Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until lightly browned. Cool.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, cream together shortening, brown sugar and white sugar. Mix in the egg and vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the batter until moistened. Mix in the walnuts and chocolate chips. Drop by heaping spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 minutes in the preheated oven, until the edges are light brown.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream the butter, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Add the eggs one at a time, beating after each addition. Stir in the milk and vanilla. Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt, stir into the creamed mixture. Using a wooden spoon, stir in the rolled oats, chocolate chips and walnuts.
Roll the dough into walnut sized balls, and place 2 inches apart on an unprepared cookie sheet. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven. Cool cookies on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a medium-sized mixing bowl, combine flour and baking soda. Set aside. In another large mixing bowl, combine butter, white sugar, brown sugar, vanilla, and pudding mix. Beat until smooth and creamy. Beat in eggs. Gradually stir in flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips.
Drop batter by heaping teaspoonfuls, about 2 inches apart, onto an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 9 to 9 1/2 minutes, or until browned.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Combine butter, sugar, eggs and vanilla.  In a blender or food processor, process the oats until finely chopped.  Then, in separate bowl, combine chopped oatmeal, flour, baking powder and baking soda.  Add flour mixture to butter mixture.  Gradually add the chopped milk chocolate chips and whole chocolate chips.
Roll dough into golf ball size balls.  Press with fork.   Bake for 6 to 8 minutes.  Do not overbake.  When they come out of the oven, the cookies will be soft.  Place a chocolate chunk in the center.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the shortening, white sugar, brown sugar and honey until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the creamed mixture. Using a wooden spoon, stir in the oats, cereal, jumbo chocolate chips and milk chocolate chips. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until golden. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Cream sugar into shortening.  Add milk and vanilla beat until fluffy.  Blend in egg.  Then add dry ingredients and mix well.  Stir in chips and nuts.
Drop by teaspoon onto greased baking sheets and bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 8-10 minutes for chewy cookies or 10-13 minutes for crispy cookies.  ENJOY!!!
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Pour the cake mix into a large bowl. Stir in the butter, eggs and vanilla with an electric mixer until well blended.  Stir in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto cookie sheets.
Bake for 11 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven, until the edges are golden. Cool on baking sheets for a few minutes before removing to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Cream butter or margarine and sugars.  Add already beaten eggs and vanilla.
Mix dry ingredients together and mix with creamed mixture.  Add chocolate chips and nuts.
Bake 8 to 10 minutes until done.   These are not HOT HOT --   Just a little surprise, definitely a little kick, goes well with the chocolate.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, sugar. Beat in egg and vanilla. Stir in the zucchini. Combine the flour, baking powder, salt and cinnamon; stir into the zucchini mixture. Mix in the chocolate chips and walnuts. Drop by heaping spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven, until edges are light brown. Remove from baking sheets to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream together the butter flavored shortening, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the creamed mixture. Finally, fold in the chocolate chips, coconut and macadamia nuts. Roll dough into 1 inch balls and place them 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely. Enjoy! - they will be chewy.  If you like them crispy, increase the cooking time to about 12 minutes. (My mom loves them burnt!)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F ( 190 degrees C).
Sift together in a large bowl flour, baking soda and salt. To this add sugars, egg, vanilla extract and butter. Beat until smooth and well blended.  Stir in nuts and chocolate chips.
Drop by teaspoonfuls 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden colored. Cool on wire rack.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream together the shortening, margarine, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Mix in the vanilla and eggs until well blended. Combine the flour, baking soda and baking powder; stir into the creamed mixture until just blended. Mix in the chocolate chips. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets. Cookies should be at least 2 inches apart.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until edges are golden. Let cookies cool for an hour or so before eating. You can try them fresh from the oven, but they will crumble and fall apart.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C). Sift together the flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon, set aside.
 In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar and white sugar. Beat in the eggs, vanilla and honey. Stir in the dry ingredients, then fold in the chocolate chips, chocolate candies,  peanut butter chips and nuts. Drop dough by teaspoons onto an unprepared cookie sheet.
Bake for 15 to 18 minutes in the preheated oven, until the cookies are golden around the edges. Remove from the baking sheet to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a  medium bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the egg, then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour and baking soda, stir into the creamed mixture. Fold in the chocolate chips and walnuts. Drop by rounded ice cream scoops onto a cookie sheet, and press down slightly to flatten. Cookies should be about 2 inches apart.
Bake for 11 to 14 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Whisk flour, baking soda, and salt together in a bowl.
In a large mixing bowl, mash the butter with white sugar and brown sugar until the mixture is well combined. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, and stir in vanilla extract. Stir in the flour mixture, about 1 cup at a time, then mix in the chocolate chips. Drop the dough by rounded tablespoon onto baking sheets, about 2 inches apart.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Allow to cool for about 5 minutes on the baking sheets before removing cookies to finish cooling.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together butter, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt; stir into the creamed mixture. Mix in the chocolate chips and marshmallows. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets about 2 inches apart.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
In a large bowl, cream the margarine, butter and both sugars until light and fluffy.
Add the eggs, milk and vanilla and beat until well blended.
Sift the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt together and add to the butter mixture.  Stir just until blended.  Stir in the oats until well blended. Fold in the chocolate and walnuts.
Cover and refrigerate the dough for at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease cookie sheets.
Take a teaspoonful  (for small cookies) or a tablespoonful (for large cookies) of dough and shape the dough into balls.  Flatten slightly into rounded disks.  Place 2 inches apart on the cookie sheets and bake until the edges are slightly browned, about 10 minutes.
Remove from the oven and let cool on the sheets for about 10 minutes.  Remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Stir together the flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.
In  a large bowl, cream together the vegetable oil, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and almond extracts. Blend in the dry ingredients, then fold in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Lightly grease 2 baking sheets.
Cream the margarine with the white and brown sugars in a mixing bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in the eggs and  vanilla extract. Mix the instant coffee and water together in a small bowl; stir into the egg and sugar mixture. Stir in the strawberry jam. chestnut puree, hot chocolate mix, cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon juice, orange liqueur, and maple extract until evenly blended. Gradually stir in the flour, granola, baking powder, baking soda, and salt until evenly blended. Stir in the chocolate chips, walnuts, and grated chocolate until well blended. Pinch off tablespoon-sized amounts of dough and roll between hands to make 1 inch diameter balls. Place balls on prepared baking sheets and flatten with a floured glass to be 1/4 inch high.
Bake in preheated oven until tops are set when lightly touched, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool 10 minutes on baking sheets before moving to a rack to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together the sugar, brown sugar, and eggs until creamy. Melt the butter or margarine in a saucepan over low heat and mix into the sugar along with the vanilla. Combine the flour and baking soda; stir into the batter until it becomes dough. Mix in chocolate chips. Drop by teaspoonfuls about 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes, until browned at the edges.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter flavored shortening, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs, one at a time then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, baking powder and salt; stir into the creamed mixture. Adjust the amount of chocolate chips to your liking, then stir them in by hand using a wooden spoon. Drop dough by heaping spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets. Clumps of dough should be about 3 inches apart.
Bake for 7 minutes in the preheated oven, until brown around the edges. Let cool for 20 minutes. Eat and enjoy!
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix butter, sugars, eggs and vanilla until smooth. In a small bowl, mix flour and baking powder. Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture and slowly add the sour cream. Mix well and add the chocolate chips.
Place by teaspoonful on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 9 to 10 minutes or until slightly golden. Remove from cookie sheet and cool.  Enjoy!
Melt butter in a small saucepan.  Let butter cool and pour into a large mixing bowl.
Add sugars and beat for several minutes, until mixture is creamy.  Add eggs and vanilla.  Beat for one minute, or until eggs dissolve into butter mixture.
Combine flour, baking soda, and salt in a separate bowl.  Add butter mixture, stirring well.  Add chocolate chips and walnuts if desired.  Refrigerate cookie dough for two hours or until firm.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Drop by two tablespoonfuls of dough, spaced 2 inches apart on the baking sheet.  Bake for 10-12 minutes, or until the cookies are lightly browned and puffed up.  Cool on cookie sheet until they are firm enough to put on a wire rack.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Blend the shortening, sugar, eggs and vanilla until light and fluffy. Combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and cream of tartar. Add the flour mixture alternately with the milk to the shortening mixture. Fold in the chocolate chips. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto lightly greased cookie sheets.
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes or until barely light brown at the edges.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Lightly beat egg and stir into Basic Cookie Mix. Stir in the butter. Add vanilla and chocolate chips.  Mix well. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto greased baking sheet.
Bake for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Soak the rolled oats in the milk for at least ten minutes.
Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt, set aside. In a medium bowl, cream together the margarine, brown sugar and white sugar. Stir in the eggs and vanilla. Add the sifted ingredients, and mix well. Then stir in the oat mixture and chocolate chips.
Drop dough by heaping spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets. Bake for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven, until cookies are golden brown. Cool on baking sheets or remove to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 375  degrees F (190 degrees C). Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt.
Stir together white sugar, brown sugar, applesauce, vanilla extract, and egg white until smooth. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the batter until moistened. Mix in chocolate chips last. Drop dough by rounded teaspoonfuls onto an ungreased cookie sheet.
Bake in preheated oven until golden brown, 8 to 10 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). grease cookie sheets or line with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Beat in the eggs until batter is smooth and well blended. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; mix into the batter alternately with the water. Stir in chocolate chips by hand using a wooden spoon. Drop cookies by heaping spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven, until the edges are golden brown. Remove cookies from cookie sheets to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a blender mix together butter or margarine, brown sugar, and white sugar.  Remove from blender and add eggs, vanilla and milk.
In a separate bowl, mix together flour, baking powder, baking soda,  salt, and chocolate chips.  Add  moist mixture to dry mixture and mix well.
Drop by teaspoon onto lightly greased baking sheets and bake for 9 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter flavored shortening, brown sugar and white sugar until light and fluffy. Add the eggs one at a time, beating well with each addition, then stir in the vanilla .Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; gradually stir into the creamed mixture. Finally, fold in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until light brown. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Whisk flour, salt, and baking soda together in a bowl. In a separate bowl, cream the butter, white sugar, and brown sugar together until mixture is light and fluffy, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the egg, milk, and vanilla extract. Whisk liquids together in small areas around the bowl, then all together to avoid separation.
Pour dry ingredients into the wet ingredients; stir until flour is thoroughly mixed in. Stir in the chocolate chips.
Transfer dough to a resealable plastic bag. Refrigerate until dough is firm, at least 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Line baking sheet with parchment paper.
Scoop out rounded tablespoons of dough and place on prepared baking sheet, leaving 4 inches of space between cookies (about 8 per sheet). Bake in preheated oven until cookies are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Slide parchment and cookies onto a cooling rack for a few minutes. Remove parchment and finish cooling the cookies on the rack.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Line a baking sheet with a silicon mat or parchment paper.
Mash the butter, white sugar, and brown sugar together in a large mixing bowl with a spatula until creamy and smooth, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla; whisk vigorously for 20 to 30 seconds.
Whisk the flour, salt, and baking soda together in a small bowl; dump into the butter mixture and mix until just combined. Fold the semi-sweet chocolate chips, white chocolate chips, and milk chocolate chips into the mixture. Arrange onto the prepared baking sheet using a small scoop or large spoon.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, about 10 minutes; remove from oven and allow to cool on the sheet for 10 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to finish cooling completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Measure oats into a blender or food processor, and then blend to a fine powder. Set aside.
In a large bowl, cream together butter and sugars. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. In a separate bowl, mix together flour, oats, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. Stir dry ingredients into creamed butter and sugar. Add chocolate chips, grated chocolate, and nuts.
Drop by rounded teaspoons onto ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake for 6 to 8 minutes in the preheated oven.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In medium bowl, combine flour, salt, baking soda, and baking powder.  Stir with fork so all ingredients are mixed.
In large bowl,  combine sugars, and butter. Mix until smooth. Add eggs and vanilla and beat until smooth and fluffy.
Add 1 cup of dry ingredients at a time to mixture until all is incorporated. Stir in chocolate chips. Drop cookies onto ungreased cookie sheet and bake for about 10-15 minutes or until edges are golden brown.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Beat butter, white sugar, brown sugar, eggs, and vanilla extract in a bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy.
Mix flour, salt, and baking powder together in a bowl. Stir the flour mixture slowly into the butter mixture until well combined; fold in chocolate chips. Place spoonfuls of dough onto a nonstick baking sheet about 2 inches apart.
Bake in the preheated oven until tops are golden brown, about 10 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a medium bowl, cream together the margarine, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla. Sift in the flour, baking soda, salt and cocoa powder; mix well. Stir in the chocolate chips. Roll tablespoonfuls of dough into balls and place them one inch apart onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 2 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease a cookie sheet.
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the egg and vanilla. Sift together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt and espresso powder; stir into the creamed mixture. Finally, stir in the chocolate chips.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto the prepared baking sheet. Cookies should be 1 1/2 to 2 inches apart. You should have 12 to 15 large cookies.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. For crispier cookies, bake 2 minutes longer. Remove from baking sheets to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Beat butter and sugar with electric mixer in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in corn syrup, egg and vanilla. Gradually beat in flour, baking soda and salt until combined.
Stir in chocolate chips.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto lightly greased baking sheets.
Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until lightly browned. Cool 1 to 2 minutes on pan; remove from pan to wire rack.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, cream the shortening, white sugar, and brown sugar together with a wooden spoon. Add eggs and vanilla, mix well. Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt, stir into the creamed mixture. Finally stir in the semi sweet chips and the white chips, if the batter is too stiff, you may need to use your hands.
Drop cookies by heaping spoonfuls onto unprepared cookie sheets. Bake for 7 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. I always like to take my cookies out of the oven when they are light brown and not yet set. It creates a softer cookie. Allow cookies to cool for a few minutes on the baking sheet before removing to cool on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
 Mix butter, eggs, vanilla and sugars together.  Add dry ingredients and blend well, until mixture is whipped.   Mix in chocolate chips.
Drop tablespoon sized pieces dough onto a greased cookie sheet; bake for 8-10 minutes, until edges are browned.  Remove from oven before the center is browned.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the shortening, butter, brown sugar, and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and coffee liqueur. Combine the flour, baking soda, and salt; stir into the sugar mixture. Mix in the oats, chocolate chips, and walnuts. Roll tablespoonfuls of dough into balls, and place them 2 inches apart onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden. Cool on a wire rack for a few minutes before eating!
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Beat in the eggs one at a time then stir in the vanilla. Combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt; stir into the creamed mixture until just blended. Finally, mix in the chocolate chips. Shape dough into golf ball sized balls and place them 3 inches apart into ungreased cookie sheets. Flatten slightly.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, peanut butter, white sugar and brown sugar.  Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the milk, cream and vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon, stir into the creamed mixture. Finally, mix in the rolled oats and chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). In a medium bowl, stir together the flour, baking soda and salt with a fork. Set aside.
Cream together the butter, white sugar, and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the bourbon. Stir in the flour mixture just until blended. Fold in pecans and chocolate chips.  Drop by large spoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake in the preheated oven until the edges are lightly browned, about 10 minutes. Cool on the cookie sheet for a minute, then remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a very large bowl, cream sugars and butter. Add eggs and vanilla. Combine dry ingredients and add gradually to creamed mixture. Stir in chocolate chips.
Scoop with ice cream scoop onto baking sheets. Flatten balls with wet hands. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until start to brown.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Grease cookie sheets.
Melt the butter in a sauce pan over low heat.  Pour into bowl and combine with cake mix and egg.  Beat on low with an electric mixer until blended.
Stir in chocolate chips, pecans and 1/4 cup of almonds.
Shape dough into balls.  Press top of ball in remaining almonds.
Bake for 9-11 minutes or until lightly browned.
In a  large bowl cream, sugar, butter, and maple syrup. Add eggs and vanilla.
Grind the oats in a food processor to a coarse texture.  Mix the dry ingredients together (except chocolate) and pour in half, add the cracker crumbs and nuts, mix well and add the rest of the dry ingredients. NOTE: You can use any one of the following kinds of nuts: peanuts, almonds, pecans, walnuts, filberts, cashews or chestnuts.
Add the chocolate chips and chocolate pieces last and form into small balls and place on a ungreased cookie sheet 3 inches apart. Press the cookies flat.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).  Dough also freezes well.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Whisk together the flour and baking soda in a bowl.
In a large bowl, mash the butter and margarine together until thoroughly blended, and mix in the white sugar, brown sugar, and instant pudding mix. Beat in eggs and vanilla extract until the mixture is smooth and creamy. Mix in the flour in several additions, then mix in the chocolate chips. Dough will be stiff.
Drop by tablespoon onto an ungreased, nonstick baking sheet, about 2 inches apart; flatten the cookies slightly.
Bake in the preheated oven until light brown and still soft on top, 8 to 10 minutes. Do not overbake. Allow to cool for 1 minute on the baking sheets before removing and cooling completely on racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl combine the flour, salt and baking soda.
In a large bowl, cream the butter and sugars. Mix until smooth. Add the vanilla and the eggs and beat well. Gradually add the flour mixture until well combined. Stir in the chocolate chips and chopped candy bars. Mix until combined.
Drop spoonfuls of dough onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 10 to 12 minutes. Immediately remove the cookies from the sheet and let them cool on racks.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt, set aside. In a medium bowl, cream  the shortening with the brown sugar and white sugar. Stir in the eggs, coconut extract and milk. Then mix in the sifted dry ingredients. Finally, stir in the chocolate chips.
Drop cookie dough from a spoon in golf ball sized portions onto an unprepared cookie sheet. Bake for 9 to 11 minutes in the preheated oven. Cookies should be slightly brown at the edges. Allow cookies to cool for a couple of minutes on the baking sheets before removing to cool completely on wire racks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).   Brush baking sheets lightly with vegetable oil.
Combine flour, salt and baking soda on waxed paper.
Beat together shortening, sugars and vanilla in large bowl with electric mixer until creamy. Add eggs and beat until light and fluffy.
Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in rolled oats and then chocolate chips.
Drop batter by rounded teaspoonsfuls onto baking sheets. Bake for 8-10 minutes or till golden. Cool cookies on sheets for 2 minutes. Remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, bowl, beat together the white sugar, brown sugar, oil and shortening until smooth. Stir in eggs and vanilla, beating well after each addition. Combine the flour, cream of tartar, baking soda and salt, stir into the sugar mixture. Finally , fold in the chocolate chips. Drop by heaping spoonfuls onto an unprepared cookie sheet.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Remove from baking sheet to cool on wire racks.
Thoroughly cream sugars, margarine, oil, egg, milk and vanilla.
Add dry ingredients, nuts and chocolate chips.
Drop by teaspoon onto ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 8-12 minutes.  (Cookies are light in color when done.)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Beat shortening and butter together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. Add brown sugar and white sugar and beat until smooth. Add eggs, vanilla extract, and baking soda; beat until well mixed.
Slowly mix enough flour into butter mixture until a thick dough forms; fold in chocolate chips. Spoon small mounds of dough onto a baking sheet, about 1-inch apart.
Bake in the preheated oven until edges are lightly browned, 8 to 9 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Beat cake mix, eggs, and vegetable oil in a bowl using an electric mixer on medium until dough is well combined; stir in chocolate chips. Drop dough by the spoonful onto a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a mixing bowl, cream shortening and sugars.  Add beaten egg and vanilla, mix well.  Sift flour, baking soda and salt together. Stir into creamed mixture; blend thoroughly. Fold in chocolate chips.
Drop by teaspoon onto cookie sheets.  Bake in oven for 6-9 minutes, depending on size.  Do not overbake.  Cookies should be a little brown around the edges when taken out.  Let cookies cool for a few minutes before removing from baking sheet.  Finish cooling on rack.  NOTE: If you use miniature chocolate chips, you can decrease the amount needed in recipe from 11/4 cups to 1 cup and not affect the quality of the cookies.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cream together white sugar, brown sugar and shortening until fluffy. Stir in the vanilla and eggs. Combine the flour, wheat germ, salt and baking soda; mix into the batter. Stir in crispy rice cereal and chocolate chips. Drop by teaspoonfuls on an ungreased cookie sheet, spacing cookies 2 inches apart.
Bake for 11 to 13 minutes in the preheated oven, until cookies are light brown at the edges. Cool well before eating as the chocolate can burn your mouth.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Sift together the all-purpose flour, cake flour, baking powder and baking soda; set aside.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs and vanilla, until well blended. Gradually stir in the flour mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips by hand using a wooden spoon, stir in walnuts if desired. Drop cookies by rounded tablespoonfuls 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 14 minutes in the preheated oven, until the edges are light brown. Let cookies cool on the baking sheet before removing to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets.
In a large bowl, mix together the butter, brown sugar and white sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and coffee liqueur. Combine the flour, baking soda and salt; stir into the sugar mixture until well blended. Stir in chocolate chips. Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls 2 inches apart onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden brown. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 2 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Mix dry ingredients and set aside.
 Cream sugars, butter or margarine and vanilla.  Beat in eggs and when smooth add dry ingredients.
Next add the coconut followed by the marshmallows and finally the chips.  They will break up the marshmallows with the beater action.
Drop small scoop onto ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake 10 minutes and remove from oven.  Let sit on tray for several minutes to let the marshmallows dry.  This will make it easier to get off the tray.  Store in a tight-fitted container.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Mix sugar and shortening until smooth and fluffy. Beat eggs and add baking soda which has been dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water.
Sift flour and salt together and add to the creamed mixture. Add vanilla and fold in nuts and chocolate chips.
Drop by spoonfuls onto lightly greased cookie sheets.  Bake for 9 to 10 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Melt the butter then stir in the sugars and vanilla.
Combine the flour, baking soda and salt. Stir the flour mixture into the butter mixture. Stir in the beaten eggs. Then add the chocolate chips and stir to combine.
On an ungreased cookie sheet drop cookies about 1 to 2 inches apart. Make the cookies in whatever size you like from small to big. Bake cookies at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 8 to 10 minutes. The shorter time will produce a chewy cookie, the longer time a crispy cookie.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).  Grease cookie sheets.
Cream butter, shortening, both sugars, egg, and vanilla in an electric mixer until fluffy.
Stir in sifted dry ingredients.
Add chocolate chips and walnuts.
Drop by teaspoonfuls, 2 inches apart onto greased cookie sheet.   Bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Sift together the flour and baking soda, set aside.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar, and white sugar. Beat in the instant pudding mix until blended. Stir in the eggs and vanilla. Blend in the flour mixture. Finally, stir in the chocolate chips and nuts. Drop cookies by rounded spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven. Edges should be golden brown.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). Grease cookie sheets or line with parchment paper.
Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.
In a medium bowl, cream together the melted butter, brown sugar and white sugar until well blended. Beat in the vanilla, egg, and egg yolk until light and creamy. Mix in the sifted ingredients until just blended. Stir in the chocolate chips by hand using a wooden spoon. Drop cookie dough 1/4 cup at a time onto the prepared cookie sheets. Cookies should be about 3 inches apart.
Bake for 15 to 17 minutes in the preheated oven, or until the edges are lightly toasted. Cool on baking sheets for a few minutes before transferring to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Combine flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in morsels and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Line cookie sheets with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, stir together the melted butter and brown sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Combine the flour, baking powder and baking soda, gradually stir into the sugar mixture. Fold in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets.
Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Sift flour and brown sugar into a bowl; stir in eggs. Mix butter into flour mixture until dough is creamy; fold in chocolate chips. Spoon dough onto a baking sheet, keeping them about 3 inches apart.
Bake in the preheated oven until slightly brown, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter and sugar until smooth. Beat in the eggs, one at a time then stir in the vanilla. Blend in the sifted ingredients to form a soft dough. Stir in the chocolate chips, white chocolate chips and walnuts. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls about 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake for 8 to 11 minutes in the preheated oven, or until lightly golden. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease a cookie sheet.
In a medium bowl, cream together the butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Stir in the vanilla and egg. Add flour and baking soda, stir until everything is just combined. Don 't mix too much or the cookies won't be chewy.
Drop dough by tablespoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheet. Place chocolate chips onto the cookies. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven. Remove from cookie sheet to cool on wire racks.
Combine flour, baking soda, and salt.  Set aside.
In a large bowl , cream the vegetable shortening and the two sugars.  Beat in the egg and vanilla. Gradually blend in the dry ingredients.
Fold in the chocolate chips and the nuts.  Cover and chill for 2 to 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Drop cookie by teaspoonfuls onto shiny lightly greased cookie sheets. Bake 10-12 minutes and transfer to wire racks to cool. Take out of oven when lightly colored -  they will darken after being taken off cookie sheet.
Preheat an oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Gently mix the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt with a fork in a bowl. Beat the butter, brown sugar, and white sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth. Add the eggs one at a time, allowing each egg to blend into the butter mixture before adding the next. Beat in the vanilla with the last egg.  Mix in the flour mixture until just incorporated. Fold in the chocolate chips; mixing just enough to evenly combine.
Divide the dough into 24 3-tablespoon-sized balls. Flatten the balls to about 1/4-inch thick onto a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until the edges are golden, 15 to 17 minutes. Allow the cookies to cool on the baking sheet until the centers begin to set, about 20 minutes.
In a 1 quart jar, layer the ingredients in the order listed. Pack down firmly after each addition.
Attach a tag with the following instructions: Cookie in a Jar  1.  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).  2.  In a large bowl, cream 1/2 cup margarine until light and fluffy. Mix in 1 egg and 2 tablespoons water. Add the entire contents of the jar, and stir until well blended. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto an ungreased cookie sheet.  3.  Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in preheated oven. Remove from baking sheets to cool on wire racks.
Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 425F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, salt, and baking powder in a small bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter and both sugars in a large bowl until well combined, 23 minutes. Add egg and vanilla; beat on medium-high speed until mixture is light and fluffy, 23 minutes. Add dry ingredients, reduce speed to low, and mix just to blend. Fold in chocolate chips.
Spoon heaping tablespoonfuls of dough onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2" apart. Bake, rotating pans halfway through, until edges are golden brown, 68 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool.
DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature, or freeze cookies for up to 2 months.
Preheat oven to 350F. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and vegetable shortening in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar, brown sugar, sour cream, and vanilla and beat to blend well. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips. Drop half of batter by generous 1/4 cupfuls onto 2 large ungreased baking sheets (5 mounds per sheet, spaced 3 inches apart). Using moistened fingertips, flatten each mound to 2 1/2-inch round.
Bake cookies until golden brown, about 14 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining batter using cooled baking sheets.
Preheat oven to 350 F.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt and stir in oats.
In bowl of a standing electric mixer beat butter with sugars until light and fluffy. Beat in Nestle's Quik until combined well. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture, beating until just combined, and stir in chocolate chips.
Arrange rounded tablespoons of dough about 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven 12 minutes, or until golden. Transfer cookies to racks to cool.
Preheat the oven to 375. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Sift together onto a piece of waxed paper the flour, the soda, and one half teaspoon of the salt.
In a large bowl, whisk together the butter and the sugar until it is light and pale yellow. Whisk in the eggs one at a time until thoroughly blended. Whisk in the vanilla, then stir in the flour just until it is blended.
Stir in the chocolate chips or pieces and mix until they are evenly distributed throughout the dough.
Drop the dough by tablespoons full onto the prepared baking sheets. Sprinkle each with a generous pinch of sea salt. Bake in the center of the oven until the cookies are golden, about 12 minutes. Remove from the oven and let sit on the baking sheets for about 4 minutes to allow the cookies, which are fragile, to firm up, then slide them onto a cooling rack.
Grease the slow cooker insert with butter or vegetable oil. Cut a piece of waxed paper to fit the bottom and grease the waxed paper.
In a bowl, beat the butter, eggs, sugars, and vanilla together until light and fluffy. In a separate bowl, stir the flour, baking soda, and salt together. Stir the dry ingredients into the butter mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips and walnuts until well blended.
Spoon the dough evenly into the slow cooker and smooth the top. Cover and cook on low for about 3 hours, until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Set the lid slightly ajar for the last 30 minutes.
Turn off the heat and remove the insert from the slow cooker. Allow to cool in the insert for 30 minutes. Invert onto a wire rack. Cut the cake in half lengthwise, then cut each piece crosswise into slices. Serve warm or at room temperature.
1. Preheat the oven to 350F. Lightly spray cookie sheets with cooking spray or line them with parchment paper. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the sugars and butter on medium speed until light in texture and smooth, about 2 minutes. While that mixture is beating, sift the flour, baking soda, and salt into a bowl and set aside.
2. Add the eggs, one at a time, to the sugar-butter mixture, followed by the vanilla, and blend until incorporated. With the mixer on low or using a wooden spoon, stir in the sifted dry ingredients. Scrape down the bowl as needed to blend evenly. Stir in the chocolate chunks.
3. Using 2 spoons, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, about 2 inches apart. If desired, slightly flatten the cookies before baking.
4. Bake the cookies in batches, rotating the pans halfway through baking, until they are cracked on top but still slightly moist, 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer the cookies to wire racks and let cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375F.
Combine flour, baking soda, and salt in small bowl. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in morsels and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease 15 x 10-inch jelly-roll pan. Prepare dough as above. Spread into prepared pan. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until golden brown. Cool in pan on wire rack. Makes 4 dozen bars.
Prepare dough as above. Divide in half; wrap in waxed paper. Refrigerate for 1 hour or until firm. Shape each half into 15-inch log; wrap in wax paper. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 F. Cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices; place on ungreased baking sheets. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely. Makes about 5 dozen cookies.
Dough may be stored in refrigerator for up to 1 week or in freezer for up to 8 weeks.
This recipe is made available as a courtesy by Nestle USA and www.VeryBestBaking.com.  Nestle Toll House is a registered trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A., Vevey, Switzerland.
Preheat oven to 350F. Toast sunflower seeds on a rimmed baking sheet, stirring halfway through, until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Let cool.
Meanwhile, heat chopped bittersweet chocolate and white chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until melted. Remove from heat and let sit, stirring occasionally, until cool, 1015 minutes.
Finely grind sunflower seeds in spice mill. Transfer to a medium bowl and add flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, kosher salt, and baking soda; whisk to combine. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition before adding the next. Beat until mixture is very light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add melted chocolate mixture, followed by dry ingredients; beat just until combined. Mix in coconut and both chocolate chips with a rubber spatula.
Using a 2" cookie scoop or 1/4-cup measuring cup, portion out dough onto parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing at least 2" apart (these are large cookies; you probably wont fit more than 8 per sheet). Flatten cookies slightly with your palm and sprinkle with sea salt. Bake, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until cookies are just barely set around edges but still wet-looking in the center (they will seem underdone, but you dont want to overbake), 1520 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Dough can be made 1 day ahead; cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before portioning. Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.
1. Preheat oven to 375F. Prepare baking sheets by spraying lightly with Pam.
2. Cream butter, both sugars, and vanilla. Beat in egg. Add baking soda and flour mixing only until smooth. Fold in chocolate chips. Use 16x24-inch baking sheets and drop cookies in 3 rows of 4.
3. Bake cookies, two baking sheets at a time. After 5 minutes take cookies out of the oven and rap on the stovetop until they deflate. Then return sheets to oven, placing the top sheet on the bottom rack, and the bottom sheet on the top rack. Continue to bake until cookies are golden brown, 4-6 more minutes.
4. Transfer immediately from cookie sheet to wire rack for cooling.
Preheat the oven to 375F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper and spray lightly with cooking spray. Set aside.
In the bowl of a food processor, combine vanilla, cocoa, cannellini beans, and the agave syrup, and blend the mixture until smooth, about 3 minutes, scraping down the side of the bowl halfway through blending.
In the bowl of a mixer fitted with a whip attachment, beat the egg whites until they form soft peaks. Gradually beat in the Splenda. Continue to beat the whites until they are creamy and nearly stiff. Add one-third of the egg-white mixture to the cocoa-bean mixture in the food processor. Blend to combine, about 30 seconds. In 2 batches, fold the lightened cocoa mixture into the egg whites until they are almost fully combined. Add cacao nibs to the batter. Fold batter until cacao nibs are evenly dispersed and cocoa mixture is completely incorporated.
Drop mounded spoonfuls of batter onto the prepared sheets. Spread batter out to form cookies about 2 1/2 inches in diameter. Sprinkle the chocolate chips on top of the cookies.
Bake for 20 minutes, rotating the pans one turn halfway through baking. Using a metal spatula, transfer cookies to wire racks to cool.
In a medium bowl, sift together the flours and the baking soda; set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, cream the butter on medium speed. Add sugars, vanilla, and kosher salt and continue to beat until well combined, light, and fluffy.
With the mixer running, add the eggs one at a time, scraping down the sides of the bowl occasionally, and beat until fully incorporated. Add the flour mixture all at once and mix on medium until it just comes together.
Add the chocolate chunks and chocolate pearls and mix on low just to incorporate. Cover mixing bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate dough for at least an hour (or up to overnight).
About 30 minutes before baking, preheat oven to 350F and line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Use a medium-size ice cream scoop, scoop dough onto baking sheets, leaving 2 inches of space between cookies. Sprinkle each cookie with a pinch of coarse sea salt and bake for 10 to 12 minutes if you like a soft, gooey center or up to 15 minutes if you prefer crispier edges. Serve warm with a glass of cold milk.
In a microwave-safe bowl, spoon in the vegan butter and melt in an 850W microwave for 30 seconds.
Stir in the brown sugar, vanilla extract, pecan nuts, and plain flour into the melted vegan butter to form a dough, then stir through the chocolate chips.
Spoon the mixture as a single cookie onto a microwave-safe plate, then microwave for 1 minute 30 seconds until cooked.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375F. Lightly grease 2 large baking sheets.
Whisk together flour mix, baking soda, salt, and xanthan gum in a small bowl.
Beat together shortening (1 cup) and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture until just incorporated, then stir in chips and walnuts if using.
Drop heaping teaspoons of dough 2 inches apart onto baking sheets.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until golden, 9 to 15 minutes. Let stand 1 minute, then transfer cookies to a rack to cool and continue making cookies using cooled baking sheets.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 375F. Whisk flour, baking powder, kosher salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, brown sugar, sugar, and powdered sugar until light and fluffy, 3-4 minutes. Add egg yolks, egg, and vanilla. Beat, occasionally scraping down the sides of the bowl, until mixture is pale and fluffy, 4-5 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low; slowly add dry ingredients, mixing just to blend. Using a spatula, fold in chocolate.
Spoon rounded tablespoonfuls of cookie dough onto 2 parchment paper-lined baking sheets, spacing 1" apart. Sprinkle cookies with sea salt.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until just golden brown around the edges, 10-12 minutes (the cookies will firm up as they cool). Let cool slightly on baking sheets, then transfer to wire racks; let cool completely. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar until light and fluffy and beat in egg and vanilla until combined well. Gradually beat in flour mixture and oats until combined well. Stir in raisins and chocolate chips.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake in middle of oven until golden, about 11 minutes. With a spatula transfer cookies to racks to cool.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment or wax paper.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Lightly beat 1 egg with a fork in a small bowl and add 1 3/4 tablespoons of it plus 2 remaining whole eggs to butter mixture, beating with mixer until creamy, about 1 minute. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture until just blended, then stir in chips.
Scoop 1/4 cup batter for each cookie, arranging mounds 3 inches apart, on 2 baking sheets. Flatten mounds into 3-inch rounds using moistened palm of your hand. Form remaining cookies on additional sheets of parchment.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until golden, 13 to 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool and continue making cookies in same manner using cooled baking sheets.
Preheat oven to 375F. Finely grind oats in processor. Add flour, baking soda and salt and blend 5 seconds.
Beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients. Mix in walnuts and chocolate chips.
For each cookie, form 2 rounded tablespoons dough into ball and place on ungreased baking sheets; flatten slightly. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350F. Line 2 regular baking sheets with silicone baking mats (such as Silpats) or lightly spray nonstick baking sheets with oil.
In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, whisk together the sugars, avocado, applesauce, egg white, and vanilla until the sugar dissolves, about 2 to 3 minutes.
In a separate large bowl, whisk together the flours, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. Fold in the dry ingredients with a spatula in two additions. Using a spatula, fold in the chocolate chunks and walnuts. The dough will be very sticky. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate 15 minutes.
Drop the dough by tablespoonfuls about 1 inch apart onto the prepared baking sheets and smooth the tops.
Bake until almost set, 10 to 12 minutes. Let cool for 5 minutes on the pan, then transfer to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in flour mixture until just combined.
Chop chocolate into 1/2-inch pieces and stir into batter with apricots, cherries, and pecans. Working in batches, drop dough by heaping tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, about 12 minutes total, or until golden. Cool cookies on baking sheets on racks 5 minutes and transfer with a spatula to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight containers at room temperature 5 days.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Stir chopped chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth; remove from over water. Cool melted chocolate 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, sift flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another medium bowl until crumbly. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue to beat until mixture is light, pale, and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add lukewarm melted chocolate and vanilla and beat just until blended. Fold in dry ingredients, then chocolate chips.
Drop chocolate cookie batter by 1/4 cupfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake cookies, 1 baking sheet at a time, until tops are evenly cracked but cookies are not yet firm to touch, about 16 minutes. Cool cookies completely on baking sheets. Using metal spatula, carefully transfer 4 cookies to each of 4 large resealable plastic bags, arranging in single layer. Freeze cookies overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.)
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 375F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Lightly beat eggs and vanilla in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 34 minutes. Add egg mixture and beat, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until mixture is pale and fluffy, 34 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, beating until just incorporated. Fold in chocolate with a spatula.
Spoon about 12 heaping tablespoonfuls of dough onto each prepared sheet, spacing 1" apart. Chill dough 15 minutes on baking sheets before transferring to oven to prevent dough from spreading too much as it bakes.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until just golden brown around the edges, 1012 minutes (cookies will firm up as they cool). Let cookies cool on baking sheets 3 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely. Let baking sheet cool completely before lining with fresh parchment and spooning on dough for the third batch of cookies.
Dough can be made 3 months ahead. Wrap tightly and freeze. Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature, or freeze up to 3 months.
Preheat oven to 350F. Using electric mixer, beat both sugars, shortening and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Mix flour, baking soda and salt in large bowl. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture and mix until blended. Stir in chocolate chips.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto heavy large baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely.
Preheat oven to 180C (350F).
Place the butter and both the sugars in the bowl of an electric mixer and beat on low speed until just combined.
Increase the speed to medium and beat for 8 minutes or until pale and creamy, scraping down the sides of the bowl.
Add the vanilla, milk and egg and beat for 2 minutes or until light and fluffy.
Sift in the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt and beat until combined.
Add the chocolate and stir to combine.
Roll heaped tablespoons of the mixture into balls and place on lightly greased baking trays lined with non-stick baking paper. Bake for 1214 minutes or until golden brown.
Allow to cool on the trays for 5 minutes before transferring onto wire racks to cool.
Preheat oven to 400F.
Beat together butter, sugar, salt, and baking soda in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy, then beat in egg and vanilla. Add flour and mix at low speed until just combined. Fold in chocolate chips.
Drop barely rounded 1/2 teaspoons of dough about 1 1/2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until golden brown, 6 to 7 minutes. Transfer cookies as baked to a rack to cool.
Sift flours, baking soda, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Set aside.
Using a mixer fitted with paddle attachment, cream butter and sugars together until very light, about 5 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla. Reduce speed to low, add dry ingredients and mix until just combined, 5 to 10 seconds. Drop chocolate pieces in and incorporate them without breaking them. Press plastic wrap against dough and refrigerate for 24 to 36 hours. Dough may be used in batches, and can be refrigerated for up to 72 hours.
When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Set aside.
Scoop 6 3 1/2-ounce mounds of dough (the size of generous golf balls) onto baking sheet, making sure to turn horizontally any chocolate pieces that are poking up; it will make for a more attractive cookie. Sprinkle lightly with sea salt and bake until golden brown but still soft, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to a wire rack for 10 minutes, then slip cookies onto another rack to cool a bit more. Repeat with remaining dough, or reserve dough, refrigerated, for baking remaining batches the next day. Eat warm, with a big napkin.
Sift together flour and baking soda and set aside. In the bowl of a standing electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter until lemony yellow, about 2 minutes. Scrape down sides of bowl and paddle. Add sugar, brown sugar and salt. Continue creaming mixture on medium speed until it is smooth and lump free, about 1 minute. Stop mixer and scrape down sides of bowl and paddle.
Add egg and vanilla and beat on low speed for 15 seconds, or until they are fully incorporated. Do not over-beat. Scrape down sides of bowl and paddle.
On low speed, add sifted flour mixture. Beat slowly until all of the flour is incorporated. Scrape down sides of bowl. Add chocolate chunks and mix in.
Heat oven to 350 degrees with the rack positioned in the lower third of the oven. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment. Spoon heaping teaspoons of dough 2 inches apart onto baking sheets. If not baking right away, remove small handfuls or spoonfuls of dough from mixer and plop them down on the middle of a sheet of parchment or wax paper, creating a log about 1 1/2 inches wide and 12 inches long. Fold parchment over, creating a sausage. Chill for at least 1 hour, preferably overnight. Using a serrated knife, slice chilled dough into 1/3-inch-thick rounds and place them 2 inches apart, in staggered rows, on parchment-lined sheets and proceed. (Dough will keep nicely, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for 1 week, or in the freezer for up to 1 month. Thaw frozen dough at room temperature for 30 minutes before slicing.)
Bake one sheet at a time for 12 to 15 minutes, until lightly browned, rotating the baking sheet front to back halfway through. Remove from heat and slide parchment off baking sheet and onto a work surface. Allow cookies to cool for at least 5 minutes before serving, or for at least 20 minutes before storing in an airtight container. They will keep for up to 3 days at room temperature.
In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whip the butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar for 3 minutes. Add the egg and yolk and whip for another 6 minutes or until light in color and fluffy.
Sift together the flours, salt, baking soda and baking powder. Switch to the paddle attachment on the mixer and add the dry ingredients and chocolate chips. Mix on low speed until all ingredients are incorporated and mixture looks homogeneous. Dough will be slightly wet.
Chill the dough until set enough to scoop with an ice cream scoop. Or transfer the dough to a sheet of parchment paper and roll into a log. Wrap it in the paper and twist the ends tightly to secure, and chill until firm enough to cut into 1-inch slices, at least 1 hour.
When ready to bake, heat oven to 375 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, scoop the dough or slice, and space cookies at least 2 inches apart on the baking sheet. Cook for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden brown on the edges but still soft in the middle.
Adjust an oven rack to the middle position. Line 2 baking sheets with aluminum foil, parchment paper or nonstick baking mats.
In a small bowl, whisk the flour, baking soda and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, beat the butter on medium until creamy. Add the granulated and brown sugars and beat on medium until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg, vanilla and 2 tablespoons water, and mix on low to combine. Add the flour mixture, and mix on low until combined. Add the chocolate and mix on low into the batter. (At this point, the dough can be refrigerated for several hours or overnight.)
Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Form the dough into 3 1/2-ounce (100-gram) balls (a heaping 1/3 cup each). Place 4 balls an equal distance apart on a prepared pan, and transfer to the freezer for 15 minutes before baking. After you put the first baking sheet in the oven, put the second one in the freezer.
Place the chilled baking sheet in the oven and bake 10 minutes, until the cookies are puffed slightly in the center. Lift the baking sheet and let it drop down against the oven rack, so the edges of the cookies set and the inside falls back down. (This will feel wrong, but trust me.) Bang it down, if necessary, to make the center fall.
After the cookies puff up again, 2 to 3 minutes later, repeat lifting and dropping the pan. Repeat a few more times, every 3 minutes, to create ridges around the edge of the cookie. Bake 16 to 18 minutes total, until the cookies have spread out, and the edges are golden brown, but the centers are much lighter and not fully cooked.
Transfer the baking sheet to a wire rack; let cool before removing the cookies from the pan.
Repeat with remaining cookies, using the first sheet pan for the third batch of cookies.
Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or Silpat. Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt.
In a mixer fitted with a paddle, cream the butter and sugars until fluffy, 3 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, then the vanilla. Add the flour mixture all at once and blend until a dough forms. Fold in the chocolate and walnuts. Chill the dough for at least an hour.
Preheat oven to 325. Roll 2 1/2 -tablespoon lumps of dough into balls, then place on the baking sheet and flatten to 1/2 -inch-thick disks spaced 2 inches apart. Chill the dough between batches. Bake until the edges are golden brown, 14 to 16 minutes. Let cool slightly on the baking sheet, then transfer to a baking rack.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Line two baking sheets with foil. Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt.
In a mixer fitted with a paddle, cream the butter, sugars and corn syrup for about 3 minutes. Stir in the vanilla, then the milk. Add the flour mixture all at once and blend just until a dough forms. Fold in the chocolate and walnuts. Chill the dough for at least an hour.
Roll 2-tablespoon lumps of dough into balls, then place on the baking sheet and flatten to 1/4 inch-thick disks spaced 2 inches apart. Chill the dough between batches. Bake until the edges are dark golden brown, 14 to 17 minutes. Let cool slightly on the baking sheet, then transfer to a baking rack.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or Silpat. Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.
In a mixer fitted with a paddle, cream the butter and sugars until fluffy, 3 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, then the vanilla. Add the flour mixture all at once and blend until a dough forms. Fold in the chocolate and walnuts. Chill the dough for at least an hour.
Roll 1/4 -cup lumps of dough into balls, then place on the baking sheet and flatten to 1/2 -inch-thick disks spaced 2 inches apart. Chill the dough between batches. Bake until the edges turn golden, 14 to 17 minutes. Let cool slightly on the baking sheet, then transfer to a baking rack.
Heat oven to 375 degrees.
Cream together butter and both sugars. Stir in eggs and vanilla.
Finely grind oatmeal in a blender or food processor. Combine the oatmeal, flour, salt, baking powder and soda in a medium bowl, and slowly add it to the wet ingredients. Beat just until combined. Grate chocolate bar using a microplane grater and add it, along with chocolate chips and nuts to the batter. Mix just to combine.
Drop by heaping tablespoonfuls, 2 inches apart, on a greased cookie sheet. Bake for 10 minutes.
Heat oven to 375F.
Mix sugars, butter, vanilla and egg in large bowl. Stir in flour, baking soda and salt (dough will be stiff). Stir in nuts and chocolate chips.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls about 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheet.
Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until light brown (centers will be soft). Cool slightly; remove from cookie sheet. Cool on wire rack.
Evenly position 2 racks in the middle of the oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. (on convection setting if you have it.) Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone sheets. (If you only have 1 baking sheet, let it cool completely between batches.)

Put the butter in a microwave safe bowl, cover and microwave on medium power until melted. (Alternatively melt in a small saucepan.) Cool slightly. Whisk the sugars, eggs, butter and vanilla in a large bowl until smooth.

Whisk the flour, baking soda and salt in another bowl. Stir the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients with a wooden spoon; take care not to over mix. Stir in the chocolate chips or chunks.

Scoop heaping tablespoons of the dough onto the prepared pans. Wet hands slightly and roll the dough into balls. Space the cookies about 2-inches apart on the pans. Bake, until golden, but still soft in the center, 12 to 16 minutes, depending on how chewy or crunchy you like your cookies. Transfer hot cookies with a spatula to a rack to cool. Serve.

Store cookies in a tightly sealed container for up to 5 days.

For a Rocky Road Bar:

Lightly butter a 9 by 13-inch baking pan. Make the batter as per cookie recipe and fold in 1 cup chopped walnuts along with the chocolate chips. Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake until the edges are light brown and the batter sets, about 45 minutes. Cool slightly and cover surface with 4 cups marshmallows and 1 cup chocolate chips. Broil at least 8 inches from the heat until marshmallows turn golden brown, about 2 minutes. (Keep an eye on the marshmallows, and turn the pan frequently--they go from golden to char in a wink.) Cool, cut and serve.
PREHEAT oven to 375 F.

COMBINE flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in morsels and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets. 

BAKE for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350F and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or spray with non-stick spray..
In a medium bowl, sift the flour, baking soda and salt together.
In another large bowl, using an electric mixer at medium speed, beat together the butter, and sugars about 2 minutes and is smooth.
Add the egg and vanilla and mix on low speed until mixed in.
Gradually add the flour mixture and mix in until just incorporated. Do not keep mixing - do not overmix.
Add chocolate chips and stir with a wooden spoon, again no overmixing, just until incorporated.
Chill dough if dough is warm.
Using a small or large ice cream scoop or heaping tablespoon, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, 6 to 8 per pan, depending on size you are making.
Bake the cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until the bottoms and edges are lightly browned and the tops feel firm when lightly touched,
Small cookies bake 8-10 minutes
Large cookies bake 10-13 minutes.
Let the cookies cool for 5 minutes on the baking sheets, then transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool completely.
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and baking soda; set aside. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter with both sugars; beat on medium speed until light and fluffy. Reduce speed to low; add the salt, vanilla, and eggs. Beat until well mixed, about 1 minute. Add flour mixture; mix until just combined. Stir in the chocolate chips.
 Watch: How to Measure Flour
2. Drop heaping tablespoon-size balls of dough about 2 inches apart on baking sheets lined with parchment paper.
3. Bake until cookies are golden around the edges, but still soft in the center, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from oven, and let cool on baking sheet 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack, and let cool completely. Store cookies in an airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week.
Preheat oven to 350F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper.

In a medium bowl combine the flour, baking soda, and salt.

In the bowl of an electric mixer beat the butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar until creamy, about 2 minutes. Add the vanilla and eggs. Gradually beat in the flour mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips.

If time permits, wrap dough in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 24 hours but no more than 72 hours. This allows the dough to marinate and makes the cookies thicker, chewier, and more flavorful. Let dough sit at room temperature just until it is soft enough to scoop.

Divide the dough into 3-tablespoon sized balls using a large cookie scoop and drop onto prepared baking sheets.

Bake for 12-15 minutes, or until golden brown. Cool for 5 minutes before removing to wire racks to cool completely.
Combine melted butter and sugars in a large bowl. Stir very well.
Add egg and egg yolk, stir well.
Stir in vanilla extract. Set aside.
In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together flour, cornstarch, baking soda, and salt.
Gradually add flour mixture to wet ingredients  stir well so that all the flour is absorbed.
Stir in chocolate chips.
Place dough in refrigerator and chill for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350F (177C) and prepare cookie sheets by lining with parchment paper.
Scoop dough by rounded 1 1/2 Tablespoon onto prepared cookie sheets, placing at least 2 apart.
Bake on 350F (177C) for 11 minutes  cookies may still seem slightly soft in the centers, that is OK, they will cook completely on the cookie sheets. Dont over-bake or your cookies will be too hard.
If desired, gently press additional chocolate chips into the tops of the warm cookies.
Allow to cool completely on cookie sheets.
1
Heat oven to 375F. In large bowl with electric mixer, beat granulated sugar, brown sugar and butter until light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla and eggs until well blended. Beat in flour, baking soda and salt. Stir in chocolate chips.
2
On ungreased cookie sheets, drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls 2 inches apart.
3
Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until light golden brown. Cool 1 minute; remove from cookie sheets to cooling racks.
STEP 1

Heat oven to 375F.

STEP 2

Combine butter, sugar, brown sugar, eggs and vanilla in bowl. Beat at medium speed until creamy. Add flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt; beat at low speed until well mixed. Stir in chocolate chips.

STEP 3

Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls, 2 inches apart, onto ungreased cookie sheets. Bake 10-12 minutes or until light golden brown. Cool 2 minutes on cookie sheet; remove to cooling rack.
Preheat the oven to 375F. Lightly grease (or line with parchment) two baking sheets.
In a large bowl, combine the sugars, butter, shortening, salt, vanilla and almond extracts, vinegar, and baking soda, beating until smooth and creamy.
Beat in the egg, again beating until smooth. Scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl with a spatula to make sure everything is thoroughly combined.
Mix in the flour, then the chips.
Use a spoon (or a tablespoon cookie scoop) to scoop 1 1/4" balls of dough onto the prepared baking sheets, leaving 2" between them on all sides; they'll spread.
Bake the cookies for 11 to 12 minutes, until their edges are chestnut brown and their tops are light golden brown, almost blonde.
Remove the cookies from the oven, and cool on the pan until they've set enough to move without breaking. Repeat with the remaining dough.
In large bowl, stir together melted butter and sugars.
Add eggs, one at a time, stirring combined.
Stir in vanilla extract and maple syrup.
In separate bowl, whisk together flour, cornstarch, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Gradually add flour mixture to wet ingredients, stirring until completely combined.
Stir in chocolate chips.
Cover bowl with clear wrap and allow to chill for at least 30 minutes (chilling!? I told you, this recipe is the worst.)
While the dough is chilling, preheat oven to 350F (175C) and prepare cookie sheets by lining with parchment paper.

Scoop about 2-3 Tbsp of cookie dough and roll into balls, making them slightly taller than they are wide. Place them at least 2 inches apart on prepared cookie sheet.
Bake about 13 minutes (cookies will appear to be a bit underdone, but edges should be just beginning to turn golden brown).
Allow cookies to cool completely on cookie sheet. If desired, gently press a few chocolate chips on top of the hot cookies.
Keep unbaked cookie dough in fridge while waiting to put the next batch in the oven, and do not place cookie dough on a hot cookie sheet.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

Cream together the butter and sugars in a mixing bowl, mixing until pale yellow and light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Mix in the eggs one at a time, and then the vanilla until combined.

Whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a separate mixing bowl. Slowly incorporate the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients. Stir in the chocolate chips. Portion 2 tablespoons of dough for each cookie and roll together to form a ball, spacing the dough balls 2 inches apart on the baking sheet.

Bake until the edges just start to brown, 12 to 14 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool.
Melt the butter in a 2-quart saucepan over low heat, then set aside to cool slightly.
Sift together the flour, salt and baking soda onto a paper plate.
Pour the butter into your stand mixer's work bowl. Add the sugars and beat with the paddle attachment on medium speed for 2 minutes.
Meanwhile in a separate bowl, whisk together the whole egg, egg yolk, milk and vanilla extract.
Slow the mixer to "stir" and slowly work the egg mixture into the butter and sugar. Mix until thoroughly combined, about 30 seconds
Using the paper plate as a slide, gradually integrate the dry ingredients, stopping a couple of times to scrape down the side of the bowl with a rubber spatula
Once the flour is worked in, drop the speed to "stir" and add the chocolate chips.
Chill the dough for 1 hour.
Heat the oven to 375 degrees F and place the racks in the top third and bottom third of the oven.
Scoop the dough into 1 1/2-ounce portions onto parchment paper-line half sheet pans, 6 cookies per sheet.
Bake two sheets at a time for 15 minutes, rotating the pans halfway through.
Remove from the oven, slide the parchment with the cookies onto a cooling rack, and wait at least 5 minutes before devouring.
Position the oven racks in the lower and upper thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 350F. Line two baking sheets with Silpats or parchment paper.
Sift the flour and baking soda into a medium bowl. Stir in the salt.
Put the chips in a fine-mesh basket strainer and shake to remove any chocolate dust (small fragments).
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle, beat, half the butter on medium speed until fairly smooth. Add both sugars and the remaining butter, and beat until well combined, then beat for a few minutes, until the mixture is light and creamy. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the eggs one at a time, beating until the first one is incorporated before adding the next and scraping the bowl as necessary. Add the dry ingredients and mix on low speed to combine. Mix in the chocolate.
Remove the bowl from the mixer and fold the dough with a spatula to be sure that the chocolate is evenly incorporated. The dough or shaped cookies can be refrigerated, well wrapped, for up to five days or frozen for up to two weeks. Freeze shaped cookies on the baking sheets until firm, then transfer to freezer containers. Defrost frozen cookies overnight in the refrigerator before baking.
Using about two level tablespoons per cookie, shape dough into balls. Arrange eight cookies on each pan, leaving about two inches between them, because the dough will spread.
Bake for twelve minutes, or until the tops are no longer shiny, switching the position and rotating pans halfway through baking.
Cool cookies on the pans on cooling racks for about two minutes to firm them up a bit, then transfer to the racks to cool completely. Repeat with second batch of cookies. The cookies can be stored in an airtight container for up to two days.


Read more: http://stylecaster.com/chef-thomas-keller-perfect-chocolate-chip-cookies/#ixzz57cHmUt1L
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper or silicon pads. 

Whisk together the flour, salt and baking soda in a large bowl. 

Place the butter in the bowl on an electric stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment and beat until smooth, about 1 minute. Add the sugars and continue mixing, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes longer. 

Add the eggs, 1 at a time, and the vanilla extract, beating until incorporated. Add half of the flour and mix until just incorporated. Add the remaining flour, again mixing until just combined. Remove the bowl from the stand and fold in the chocolate chunks. 

Using a small ice cream scoop, spoon the dough onto a baking sheet, leaving at least 2 inches between each cookie and bake on the middle rack until the cookies are lightly golden brown and still soft in the middle, about 11 minutes. Let cookies rest for 2 minutes on the baking sheet before removing them to a baking rack with a wide metal spatula. Let the cookies cool on the baking rack for a few minutes before eating. Repeat with remaining dough.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Cream sugars and butter.
Add vanilla and eggs and mix well.
Combine dry ingredients together and gradually add to creamed mixture.
Stir in chips and nuts.
Roll into 1 1/4" balls and place on non-stick cookie sheets, about 2" apart.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375.
In a medium bowl, mix together flour, baking soda, and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and both sugars until light and fluffy. Mix in eggs and vanilla.
Add flour mixture and mix until well combined. Stir in chocolate chips.
Eat a bunch of the cookie dough (kidding!).
Scoop what's left of the cookie dough onto an ungreased baking sheet.
Bake cookies 8 to 12 minutes, depending on how gooey you want those centers to be.
Let cool 5 minutes, then transfer cookies to a wire rack.
In a large bowl, beat butter and sugars until blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. In a small bowl, whisk flour, baking soda and salt; gradually beat into butter mixture. Stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.
Shape 1/4 cupfuls of dough into balls. Flatten each to 3/4-in. thickness (2-1/2-in. diameter), smoothing edges as necessary. Place in an airtight container, separating layers with waxed or parchment paper; refrigerate, covered, overnight.
To bake, place dough portions 2 in. apart on parchment paper-lined baking sheets; let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before baking. Preheat oven to 400.
Bake 10-12 minutes or until edges are golden brown (centers will be light). Cool on pans 2 minutes. Remove to wire racks to cool. Yield: about 2 dozen.
Position a rack in the lower third of the oven. Heat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or use a silicon baking mat.

Whisk the flour, baking soda, and salt together. Set aside.

Add the butter, both sugars, and the vanilla to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Or, in a mixing bowl, using a handheld mixer). Cream the butter and sugars together on medium speed (speed 4 on our mixer) until light and fluffy; 3 to 5 minutes.

Scrape the side and bottom of the bowl then add the eggs. Mix on medium-low speed for 30 seconds. The eggs will not be completely incorporated.

Turn the speed down to lowest setting and add the dry ingredients in thirds, beating until just combined; 1 to 2 minutes.

With the mixer on low, sprinkle the chocolate chips until just incorporated.

BAKE COOKIES
Drop 3 tablespoon-mounds or use a large cookie scoop onto baking sheets. Leave 2 inches between the cookies to allow for spreading.

Bake the cookies, one sheet at a time and rotating once during cooking, for 15 to 18 minutes. The cookies should be golden brown around the edges but light in the middles. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 2 minutes then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Store the cookies in an airtight container for up to 3 days at room temperature or up to a week in the refrigerator.
MAKE BATTER
Position a rack in the lower third of the oven. Heat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or use a silicon baking mat.

Whisk the flour, baking soda, and salt together. Set aside.

Add the butter, both sugars, and the vanilla to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (Or, in a mixing bowl, using a handheld mixer). Cream the butter and sugars together on medium speed (speed 4 on our mixer) until light and fluffy; 3 to 5 minutes.

Scrape the side and bottom of the bowl then add the eggs. Mix on medium-low speed for 30 seconds. The eggs will not be completely incorporated.

Turn the speed down to lowest setting and add the dry ingredients in thirds, beating until just combined; 1 to 2 minutes.

With the mixer on low, sprinkle the chocolate chips until just incorporated.

BAKE COOKIES
Drop 3 tablespoon-mounds or use a large cookie scoop onto baking sheets. Leave 2 inches between the cookies to allow for spreading.

Bake the cookies, one sheet at a time and rotating once during cooking, for 15 to 18 minutes. The cookies should be golden brown around the edges but light in the middles. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 2 minutes then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Store the cookies in an airtight container for up to 3 days at room temperature or up to a week in the refrigerator.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a large bowl, beat the melted butter and sugars together with an electric mixer (or stand mixer) on medium speed until smooth and light and fluffy in color, around 5 minutes. Beat in the egg, yolk, and vanilla until combined.
Reduce the speed to low and slowly add half the flour, the salt and baking soda, and then the second half of the flour.  Mix in the chips until incorporated.  Working with 1 large tablespoons of dough at a time, roll them into balls and place them on a cookie sheet (lined with parchment paper or a baking mat) about 2 inches apart.
Bake the cookies until the edges are set and beginning to brown but the middles are still soft and puffy, around 10 minutes.
Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes and then transfer to a wire rack to let cool completely.
Repeat with remaining dough.
Place oats in a small food processor or blender and grind until they turn powdery. Place them in a medium sized bowl and whisk in the flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Set aside.
Stir together melted butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar until smooth. (No mixer needed  just use a wooden spoon or spatula!) Stir in vanilla, lemon juice, and eggs. Stir until smooth, then stir in flour mixture. Mixture may be slightly lumpy because of the ground oats. Stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.
Line a cookie sheet with wax or parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Scoop 1/4 cupfuls of the dough into balls and place on the cookie sheet. You do not need to space them; this is just for chilling. Cover well with plastic wrap and chill at least 4 hours or overnight before baking.
Preheat oven to 350F. Place cookies well spaced on cookie sheets lined with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. Slightly depress each ball with the palm of your hand.
Bake for 13-17 minutes. Do not over bake  these are best a bit under done.
Recipe slightly adapted from FoodGeeks.All images and text Doro
In a large mixing bowl beat shortening and butter with an electric mixer on medium to high speed for 30 seconds. Add brown sugar, granulated sugar, and baking soda. Beat until combined, scraping sides of bowl occasionally. Beat in eggs and vanilla until combined. Beat in as much of the flour as you can with the mixer. Using a wooden spoon, stir in any remaining flour. Stir in chocolate pieces and, if desired, nuts.
Drop dough by rounded teaspoons 2 inches apart onto an ungreased cookie sheet.
Bake in a 375 degrees F oven for 8 to 10 minutes or until edges are lightly browned. Transfer cookies to a wire rack; cool. Makes about 60 cookies.
Preheat oven to 385 degrees.
Melt  cup of butter in small saucepan. Once butter is melted, turn on a timer for 1 minute and cook for 1 minute, swirling pan often.
Meanwhile, place remaining  cup butter, brown sugar, and sugar into large mixing bowl and cream for 2 minutes. Add melted butter and continue to cream for 3 minutes.
Add eggs and vanilla and cream for 1 minute, scraping down sides.
Stir in flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt and mix just until combined. Avoid overmixing the dough once the flour is added.
Stir in semisweet and milk chocolate chips.
If time allows, tightly wrap cookie dough and let chill.
Drop onto parchment or Silpat lined baking sheet.
Bake for 8 - 11 minutes or until color begins to develop on the edges.
Let cool for 5 minutes before removing from pan.
Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or leave ungreased.

In a large bowl or the bowl of you mixer add the sugars and melted butter and mix well until creamy. 

Add the eggs, vanilla, baking soda and salt to the bowl and beat on low speed until well incorporated, for about 30 seconds.

Add the flour to the bowl and mix until crumbles form. Note that you could mix your flour with the salt and baking soda, but I don't find that it makes a difference at all. 

Add the chocolate chips to the bowl and use a spatula to mix them in to the dough. 

You can use a small ice cream scoop to scoop out cookie balls or use your hands to roll out the dough into balls, up to you how big you want your cookies. Place them onto the prepared baking sheet. This recipe yields around 50 cookies, so if you can only bake one tray at a time, place the remaining cookie dough in the fridge until ready for the next batch. Repeat with remaining cookie dough.

Bake 9 to 11 minutes or until just barely golden around the edges of the cookies. DO NOT OVER BAKE. 

Let them cool on the baking sheet for about 15 minutes, then transfer them to  wire rack to finish cooling or enjoy eating them.
Whisk the flour, salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Set aside.
In a separate bowl melt the butter. Add in both white and brown sugars and whisk vigorously for about 1 minute.
Whisk in one egg to the sugar-butter mixture, stirring until it's fully mixed in. Scrape the sides of the bowl with your spatula.
Whisk in the second egg and the vanilla and scrape the sides of bowl again.
Add the dry ingredients to the wet and stir with the spatula to fully combine. Make sure you've scraped the bottom of the bowl and there are no streaks of dry ingredients left. Stir in the chocolate chips. The dough will be soft but DON'T add more flour. It needs to be chilled now to firm up.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Chill the dough for a minimum of 1 hour. This will make it easier to scoop and you cookies will keep their shape better while baking. (This dough can be made and kept in the fridge for 7 days. The dough also freezes really well)
Scoop 14 balls of cookie dough (1/4 cup/100g each) and place on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Leave some space between the cookies as they spread out during baking.
Bake the cookies at 375oF (190oC) for 12 minutes, or until the edges are set and the cookie is beginning to turn golden brown throughout, but still doughie in the middle. It is really important you don't over bake these cookies otherwise the won't be soft in the middle.
Let cool on the sheet for 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Store them at room temperature in an airtight container for up to 3 days. #
The raw dough can be frozen for up to 8 weeks.
Preheat oven to 375F. Line a baking sheet with a Silpat or parchment paper.
In a large bowl, sift flour, baking soda, and salt.
In a separate bowl of a stand mixer, beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy.
Add egg, beating well. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips.
Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake for 9 to 11 minutes, until cookies are golden brown.
Sprinkle with flake salt. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
Combine flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Mix to combine and set aside.
Using paddle attachment on mixer, cream butter and sugars together just until blended.
Add eggs, one a time, mixing well after each addition.
Add the vanilla.
Put mixer on low speed, and add in dry ingredients.
Mix until just combined. Do not overmix.
Stir in chocolate chips by hand gently.
It's best to make bigger cookies for the right texture - so I would recommend using 4 Tablespoon size scoop to form your cookies.
Place on cookie sheet and bake for 15-17 minutes. I like mine to look a little undercooked in the middle, then let them finish cooking on the cookie sheet for a few minutes while they cool. Then move them to a cookie rack or plate to keep cooling.
If you are freezing these cookies: Form into balls, and freeze on a cookie sheet. After frozen remove and add to a ziploc freezer bag. They will last for about a month in the freezer. To bake just take out and bake as directed, adding a few extra minutes of baking time.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda and salt, set aside.
For the browned butter: In a small pot over medium heat, melt 1 stick of butter, swirling the pan until lightly browned with a nutty aroma, about 5 minutes. Set aside.
In the bowl of an electric mixer, fitted with a paddle attachment, add one stick room temperature butter, granulated sugar, light brown and dark brown sugars, beat on medium speed until combined. Add the eggs, one at a time, and vanilla, beat until combined. Slowly stream in the melted butter, until mixed. Add the flour mixture until completely combined. Stir in the chocolate chips. Using a 1/2 ounce scoop (about 1 tablespoon), scoop the cookie dough onto parchment lined baking sheet, chill in refrigerator for 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350F degrees. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Place cookie dough 2 inches apart on the lined baking sheets. Bake in oven for 8-10 minutes, until golden around the edges and still soft in the middle. Let cool on the baking sheet for 2 minutes. Transfer the cookies to a wire rack to cool completely, if you desire.
Helpful Tips: 
- Serve with chocolate, vanilla and pistachio ice cream for an easy ice cream sandwich party! Roll ice cream sandwiches in sprinkles, mini chocolate chips and chopped peanuts.
- Let dough chill in freezer for 30 minutes if you are in a hurry to bake!
Preheat oven to 375F. Mix flour, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Set aside. Beat butter and sugars in large bowl with electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla; mix well. Gradually beat in flour mixture on low speed until well mixed. Stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.

Drop by rounded tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets.

Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until lightly browned. Cool on baking sheets 1 minute. Remove to wire racks; cool completely.
1. Heat oven to 375F.
2. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla in large bowl with mixer until creamy. Add eggs; beat well. Stir together flour, baking soda and salt; gradually add to butter mixture, beating until well blended. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts, if desired. Drop by teaspoons onto ungreased cookie sheet.
3. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until lightly browned. Cool slightly; remove from cookie sheet to wire rack. Cool completely. Makes about 5 dozen cookies.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) with rack in center of oven. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.

In the bowl of your electric mixer (or with a hand mixer), beat the butter until smooth and creamy. Add the white and brown sugars and beat until fluffy (about 2 minutes). Beat in eggs, one at a time, making sure to beat well after each addition. Add the vanilla and beat until incorporated. Scrape down the sides of the bowl as needed.

In a separate bowl, combine flour, baking soda, and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture and beat until incorporated, adding the chocolate chips and nuts (if using) about half way through mixing. If you find the dough very soft, cover and refrigerate until firm (from 30 minutes to two hours).

For large cookies, use about a 2 tablespoon ice cream scoop or with two spoons, drop about 2 tablespoons of dough (35 grams) onto the prepared baking sheets. Bake about 10 - 14 minutes , or until golden brown around the edges. Cool completely on wire rack.



Read more: http://www.joyofbaking.com/ChocolateChipCookies.html#ixzz58zeJSqMM
Follow us: @joyofbaking on Twitter | joyofbaking on Facebook
Preheat the oven to 375. Spray the cookie sheet with nonstick spray or you can use a liner. Silicone liners (like silpats) and parchment paper both work very well.

Mix together the two sugars. Be sure to break apart any hard chunks of brown sugar and get the two sugars fully mixed. We prefer dark brown sugar because we think it has a deeper, more caramel flavor, but light brown sugar will make your cookies taste a bit sweeter.

Mix the softened butter into the sugar in globs. This helps really incorporate the butter and the sugar.

Mix in the eggs one at a time. Crack the eggs directly into the bowl with the butter-sugar mix, and then use your spoon to lightly beat the eggs before stirring them into the butter and sugar.

Measure and mix in the vanilla, salt, and baking soda. Mix the batter as much as possible right now. Break apart any remaining clumps and make sure the batter is a consistent color throughout.

If you prefer, you can mix the salt and baking soda with the flour in a separate bowl instead of adding them now. This ensures that these dry ingredients are evenly distributed throughout the batter, but we've never had any trouble adding them in at this point. Honestly, we just prefer to save ourselves an extra bowl to wash!

Add the flour all at once. At this point, you want to mix the batter as little as possible to avoid forming too much gluten. Stop mixing as soon as there is no more visible flour on the dough or in the bottom of the bowl.

Add the chocolate chips all at once and use a folding motion to incorporate them into the batter.

Scoop the batter onto your baking sheet, spacing the balls of dough roughly 2 inches apart. We use a tablespoon and measure out slightly rounded balls - they're about the size of pingpong balls. You can certainly go larger or smaller as you prefer!

Bake the cookies for 9-11 minutes. Take them out when they look puffy, are set around the edges, and dry to the touch. Let them cool for a few minutes on the baking sheet. As they cool, they will collapse back on themselves.

Transfer the cookies to a rack to finish cooling completely. Bake the rest of the cookies in batches.
Preheat oven to 350. Mist a large baking sheet with cooking spray, then wipe it off with a paper towel. (You barely need anything on the pan, the cookies will produce their own anti-stick grease!)
In a large bowl mix together sugars, butter, eggs, and vanilla. In another bowl combine flour, salt, and baking soda and whisk to combine. Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients and mix until just combined (I do this part with a spoon or spatula, instead of a hand mixer etc, to keep the batter from becoming "over mixed")
Roll the dough into 1.5 inch balls (if the dough is way too sticky you can add a little more flour 1 tablespoon at a time until you can roll it - it will still stick to your hands a little bit but that's okay). Place rolled dough balls on prepared baking sheet 2-3 inches apart and press each ball down slightly with the palm of your hand to flatten it a little bit. Stuff extra chocolate chips in the top of the cookies if you'd like. (I always do this) Bake 10-12 minutes.
Remove from oven and allow to cool 5-10 minutes on the pan. Repeat process with remaining dough. Store in airtight container at room temperature.
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or in a large mixing bowl using an electric mixer, cream together the butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar for 1-2 minutes until well combined. Add in the eggs and vanilla extract one at a time and mix until fully combined.
Slowly mix in the flour mixture and continue mixing until just combined, then mix in the chocolate chips, making sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl as needed.
Cover the cookie dough tightly and transfer to the refrigerator to chill for at least 2 hours.
Once the dough is almost chilled, preheat the oven to 350F. Line large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats and set aside.
Remove the cookie dough from the refrigerator, scoop out 2 tablespoon sized balls of cookie dough, and drop onto the prepared baking sheets. Make sure to leave a little room between each ball of cookie dough as they will spread a little while they bake.
Bake in separate batches at 350F for 10-12 minutes or until the edges of the cookies are lightly golden brown and the top is set. Remove from the oven and cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes, then transfer the cookies to a wire rack to finish cooling.
Heat oven to 325 degrees F.
In a medium bowl mix together flour, salt, and baking soda..
In a separate large mixing bowl beat the butter and sugars together with an electric mixer until well blended. 

Add the egg, egg yolk, and vanilla. Stir in the dry ingredients and mix until just combined. 

Gently stir in the chocolate chips. The dough will be soft.

Gently scoop dough into balls and place on a cookie sheet. Bake for 10-12 minutes. Store in an airtight container.
Preheat oven to 375.
Cream together the butter, sugar, brown sugar, eggs, baking soda, salt and vanilla.
Slowly add the flour to the mix.
Stir in the chocolate chips and drop by teaspoonfuls, 2 inches apart, onto a greased cookie sheet. Bake 12-15 minutes or until lightly browned.
Preheat oven to 375.
In a stand mixer, beat butter and shortening together until combined (about a minute). Add sugars and beat another minute or two. Add vanilla and egg. Beat again.
Mix in the chocolate chips.
Add the flour, soda, and salt. Mix JUST until combined. It will look over-floured for a few seconds, but should come together fairly quickly.
Scoop golf-ball size spoonfuls of dough onto cookie sheet, sprinkle each ball with a pinch of kosher or sea salt and bake for 9-11 minutes (mine are 11 minutes, every time, except when I've made them in a higher altitude like Utah, and there it's about 9 minutes). They should be light-colored and puffed when they come out of the oven, but dry-looking (not shiny or wet). Let cool on the pan for about 5 minutes then transfer to cooling rack.
Preheat oven to 375F.

In a small bowl combine flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.

In a large bowl cream butter, sugar and brown sugar until light. Beat in eggs and vanilla until smooth. Gradually add flour mixture until combined. Stir in chips and walnuts.

Drop by well-rounded teaspoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets. Bake 8-10 minutes or until golden brown.

The Original Chocolate Chip Pan Cookie: Prepare dough as directed. Spread evenly into greased 10x15x1-inch pan. Bake at 375F for 20-25 minutes. Cool before cutting into 48 two-inch bars.
Preheat the oven to 375F. Lightly grease (or line with parchment) two baking sheets.
In a large bowl, combine the sugars, butter, shortening, salt, vanilla and almond extracts, vinegar, and baking soda, beating until smooth and creamy.
Beat in the egg, again beating until smooth. Scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl with a spatula to make sure everything is thoroughly combined.
Mix in the flour, then the chips.
Use a spoon (or a tablespoon cookie scoop) to scoop 1 1/4" balls of dough onto the prepared baking sheets, leaving 2" between them on all sides; they'll spread.
Bake the cookies for 11 to 12 minutes, until their edges are chestnut brown and their tops are light golden brown, almost blonde.
Remove the cookies from the oven, and cool on the pan until they've set enough to move without breaking. Repeat with the remaining dough.
In a large bowl, whisk together the cake flour, bread flour, baking powder, baking soda, and coarse salt. Set aside. In a large bowl or stand mixer, cream the butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Add the eggs, one at a time, to the butter/sugar mixture and beat well. Add the vanilla and mix thoroughly, scraping down the sides of the bowl as you go. Add the flour mixture gradually, beating until just combined, 5 to 10 seconds. Fold in the chocolate using a spatula. Press a piece of plastic wrap against the surface of the dough and refrigerate for at least 24 hours, or up to 72 hours. When you're ready to bake, preheat the oven to 350 F. Scoop large spoonfuls of dough onto a parchment-lined baking sheet (I did about 1/4-cup spoonfuls). Sprinkle with the flaky sea salt and bake for 13 to 15 minutes, or until the edges are just beginning to brown and the middle still looks soft. Remove from the oven and let cool for a few minutes before transferring to a wire rack to finish cooling.
Heat oven to 375 F. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt. Set aside. Mix together chocolate chips and chopped nuts. Set aside. All medium speed unless otherwise noted: In a standing mixer, with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugars until well mixed and light. Scrape down the sides. Add one egg. Mix for 5 seconds. Scrape down the sides. Add second egg. Mix for 5 seconds. Scrape down the sides. Add vanilla. Mix for 5 seconds. Scrape down the sides. You're going to add the sifted flour mixture in 4 batches, stopping before adding the final batch. For the first 3 batches, mix at low speed just to combine, scraping down the sides between each addition. When you get to the final batch of flour, add the chocolate chip/nut mixture. They will get a bit crushed. That's okay. Mix until there's barely a trace of flour visible. Don't over-mix. Sometimes, it's better to be safe and do the final bit of mixing by hand. Set up a sheet pan with a silpat or parchment paper. Bake one tray at a time or they will all cook at different rates. Make them spherical, not flat. The cookie size is up to you. I find the bigger they are, the better ratio you have between gooey interior and crisp exterior. 2 ounces is about right for that. Leave a few inches between the raw cookies. Place sheet pan in the oven. They cook very fast at this temp. I never set a timer. I just hang around the oven and drink tea. They're done when they're brown and crispy on the outer border and raw in the very middle (8 to 10 minutes). Remove sheet pan. Allow to cool for a few minutes, then, with a spatula, transfer cookies to a cookie rack to cool. If you're not going to eat them right away, they should be frozen. If you're not baking them off right away, portion them out with an ice cream scoop, place them on a sheet pan, and freeze. Once firm, store them in a Ziploc bag. Works great to bake them off when they're frozen.
Center a rack in the oven and preheat the oven to 375 F. Line two baking sheets with parchment or silicone mats. Whisk together the flour, salt, and baking soda. Working with a stand mixer, preferably fitted with a paddle attachment, or with a hand mixer in a large bowl, beat the butter on medium speed for about 1 minute, until smooth. Add the sugars and beat for another 2 minutes or so, until well blended. Beat in the vanilla. Add the eggs one at a time, beating for 1 minute after each egg goes in. Reduce the mixer speed to low and add the dry ingredients in 3 portions, mixing only until each addition is incorporated. On low speed, or by hand with a rubber spatula, mix in the chocolate and nuts. (The dough can be covered and refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen. If you'd like, you can freeze rounded tablespoonfuls of dough, ready for baking. Freeze the mounds on a lined baking sheet, then bag them when they're solid. There's no need to defrost before bakingjust add a minute or two to the baking time.) Spoon the dough by slightly rounded tablespoonfuls onto the baking sheets, leaving about 2 inches between spoonfuls. Bake the cookiesone sheet at a time and rotating the sheet at the midway pointfor 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are brown at the edges and golden in the center; they may still be a little soft in the middle, and that's just fine. Pull the sheet from the oven and allow the cookies to rest for 1 minute, then carefully, using a wide metal spatula, transfer them to the racks to cool to room temperature. Repeat with the remainder of the dough, cooling the baking sheets between batches.
Whisk both flours, the baking soda, nutmeg, and coriander together. Working with a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or in a large bowl with a hand mixer, beat the butter, both sugars, and the salt together on medium speed until smooth, about 3 minutes. One by one, add the eggs and beat for 1 minute after each goes in. Beat in the vanilla. Turn the mixer off, add the dry ingredients all at once and pulse to begin the blending, then mix on low speed until the dough comes together and the flour has disappeared. Add the chocolate and incorporate on low speed or mix in by hand with a sturdy flexible spatula. Wrap the dough in plastic and refrigerate it for at least 1 hour. Position the racks to divide the oven into thirds and preheat it to 375 F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. Using a tablespoon, scoop out level portions of dough. Roll each tablespoon of dough between your palms to make a ball and place the balls at least 2 inches apart on the lined baking sheets. Bake for 9 to 11 minutes, rotating the pans top to bottom and front to back after 6 minutes, or until the cookies have spread, puffed a little, turned a light golden brown, and feel only just set around the edges. Transfer the baking sheets to racks and let the cookies rest on the sheets for at least 5 minutes before letting them onto the racks to cool to just warm or room temperature. Repeat with the remaining dough, being certain to use cool baking sheets.
1. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 375 degrees. Line 2 large (18- by 12-inch) baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour and baking soda together in medium bowl; set aside.

2. Heat 10 tablespoons butter in 10-inch skillet over medium-high heat until melted, about 2 minutes. Continue cooking, swirling pan constantly until butter is dark golden brown and has nutty aroma, 1 to 3 minutes. Remove skillet from heat and, using heatproof spatula, transfer browned butter to large heatproof bowl. Stir remaining 4 tablespoons butter into hot butter until completely melted.

3. Add both sugars, salt, and vanilla to bowl with butter and whisk until fully incorporated. Add egg and yolk and whisk until mixture is smooth with no sugar lumps remaining, about 30 seconds. Let mixture stand 3 minutes, then whisk for 30 seconds. Repeat process of resting and whisking 2 more times until mixture is thick, smooth, and shiny. Using rubber spatula or wooden spoon, stir in flour mixture until just combined, about 1 minute. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts (if using), giving dough final stir to ensure no flour pockets remain.

4. Divide dough into 16 portions, each about 3 tablespoons (or use #24 cookie scoop). Arrange 2 inches apart on prepared baking sheets, 8 dough balls per sheet. (Smaller baking sheets can be used, but will require 3 batches.)

5. Bake cookies 1 tray at a time until cookies are golden brown and still puffy, and edges have begun to set but centers are still soft, 10 to 14 minutes, rotating baking sheet halfway through baking. Transfer baking sheet to wire rack; cool cookies completely before serving.
STEP ONE

HEAT oven to 375F.
STEP TWO

BEAT shortening, brown sugar, milk and vanilla in large bowl with mixer on medium speed until well blended. Beat in egg. Combine flour, salt and baking soda. Mix into shortening mixture until just blended. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts.
STEP THREE

DROP by rounded measuring tablespoonfuls 3 inches apart onto baking sheet.
STEP FOUR

BAKE 8 to 10 minutes for chewy cookies, or 11 to 13 minutes for crisp cookies. Cool 2 minutes. Remove to wire rack to cool completely.
In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix the butter on medium speed for 5 to 10 seconds. Add the sugar and beat until the mixture is aerated and pale, about 4 minutes. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl.
Crack the eggs into a small cup or bowl, then pour in the vanilla, but do not whisk.
In another bowl, whisk together the flour, kosher salt, sea salt, baking powder and baking soda.
With the mixer running, pour one egg from the cup into the bowl with the butter mixture, mixing briefly before adding the second, until the batter resembles cottage cheese, approximately 5 seconds for each egg. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl, then mix on medium speed for 20 to 30 seconds to make the mixture nearly homogeneous.
Add the dry ingredients all at once and mix on low speed until the dough comes together but still looks shaggy, approximately 30 seconds. Do not overmix. Remove the bowl from the stand mixer. With the help of a scraper, bring the mixture together completely by hand, and then use the scraper to mix or fold in the chocolate. (It's a little awkward, since the chocolate discs are so large and you don't want to break them, but just do your best.)
Transfer the dough to a sheet of plastic wrap and wrap tightly. Refrigerate overnight or up to 1 week.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees . Lightly grease two cookie sheets.
Using a 3/4-ounce (1 1/2-tablespoon) ice cream scoop, portion the dough into 12 mounds. Be mindful that the chocolate pieces are evenly distributed among the mounds. Evenly space the mounds on a prepared sheet pan. Bake for 8 minutes. Rotate the pan and bake until the edges begin to caramelize and the tops set, approximately 4 more minutes. Sprinkle immediately with additional flaky sea salt, if desired, and let the cookies cool on the pan for 1 to 2 minutes. Using a metal spatula, transfer the cookies to a wire rack to cool completely. Repeat with the remaining dough. Store in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
In a large bowl using a hand-held mixer or stand mixer with paddle attachment, beat the butter for 1 minute on medium speed until completely smooth and creamy. Add the brown sugar and granulated sugar and mix on medium speed until fluffy and light in color. Mix in egg and vanilla. Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl as needed. In a separate bowl, combine flour, cornstarch, baking soda and salt. On low speed, slowly mix into the wet ingredients until combined. The cookie dough will be quite thick. Add the chocolate chips and mix for about 5 seconds until evenly distributed. Cover dough tightly with aluminum foil or plastic wrap and chill for at least 1 hour and up to 2 days. Chilling is mandatory for this cookie dough.
Remove cookie dough from the refrigerator and allow to sit at room temperature for 10 minutes. Preheat oven to 350F (177C). Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. (Always recommended for cookies.) Set aside.
Once chilled, the dough will be slightly crumbly, but will come together if you work the dough with your hands as you roll into individual balls. Roll balls of dough, about 1.5 Tablespoons of dough each, into balls.
Bake for 10-11 minutes, until barely golden brown around the edges. They will look extremely soft when you remove them from the oven. Allow to cool for 5 minutes on the cookie sheet. If the cookies are too puffy, try gently pressing down on them with the back of a spoon. They will slightly deflate as you let them cool. Transfer to cooling rack to cool completely.
Step 1
In a bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter and brown sugar until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.

Step 2
In another bowl, mix flour, baking soda, and salt. Stir or beat into butter mixture until well incorporated. Stir in chocolate chips and pecans, if using.


Step 3
Drop dough in 2-tablespoon (1/8-cup) portions, 2 inches apart, onto buttered 12- by 15-inch baking sheets.

Step 4
Bake in a 400 oven until cookies are lightly browned and no longer wet in the center (break one open to check), 6 to 8 minutes; if baking more than one pan at a time, switch pan positions halfway through baking.

Step 5
With a wide spatula, transfer cookies to racks to cool. If hot cookies start to break, slide a thin spatula under them to release; let stand on pan to firm up, 2 to 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
1/2 cup (1/4 lb.) butter, melted and cooled to room temperature 1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar 1/3 cup granulated sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup all-purpose flour 3/4 teaspoon baking soda 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup semisweet chocolate chips (6 oz.) 1/2 cup chopped pecans (optional)
Step 1
In a bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar until well blended. Beat in 3 tablespoons water and the vanilla until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.

Step 2
In another bowl, mix flour, baking soda, and salt. Stir or beat into butter mixture until well incorporated. Stir in chocolate chips and pecans, if using.


Step 3
Drop dough in 1-tablespoon portions, 2 inches apart, onto buttered 12- by 15-inch baking sheets.

Step 4
Bake in a 300 oven until edges of cookies are browned, but an area about 1-inch wide in the center is still pale, about 14 minutes; if baking more than one pan at a time, switch pan positions halfway through baking.

ADVERTISING


Step 5
With a wide spatula, transfer cookies to racks to cool. If hot cookies start to break, slide a thin spatula under them to release; let stand on pan to firm up, 2 to 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.

2. In a large bowl, using a whisk or kitchen mixer, cream the butter and brown sugar. Scrape down sides of the bowl.

3. Add eggs, one at a time.

4. Add vanilla.

5. In a separate bowl, mix flour, salt and baking powder.

6. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture and mix just until combined. Stir in chocolate chips.

7. Drop rounded spoonfuls onto an ungreased baking sheet.

8. Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit until light brown, about 10 minutes.

9. Remove and let cool.
Heat oven to 375F.
Stir flour with baking soda and salt; set aside.
In large mixing bowl, beat butter with sugar and brown sugar at medium speed until creamy and lightened in color.
Add eggs and vanilla, one at a time. Mix on low speed until incorporated.
Gradually blend dry mixture into creamed mixture. Stir in nuts and chocolate chips.
Drop by tablespoon onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown.

Read more at http://www.ghirardelli.com/chocolate-chip-cookies-rec1016#8jClshu0iStjpiFM.99
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
In a large mixer, I used my KitchenAid cream together the butter, sugar and brown sugar until light and fluffy.
Mix in the vanilla and eggs.
In a small bowl stir together all of the dry ingredients, whole wheat flour, all-purpose flour baking soda and baking powder.
Gently mix in the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients, making sure to mix well.
Stir in 1  cups of the chocolate chunks.
Scoop out 1/3 of cup of the dough. Break the 1/3 cup chunk in half, place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Press in a few of the remaining chocolate chunks into the dough. Repeat with remaining dough and chocolate chunks. Have 6 cookies per pan, place in oven and bake 8-10 minutes or until edges are a golden brown. Remove from oven and place on a wire rack to cool. Serve.
Preheat the oven to 350?F.

Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a medium bowl and set aside.

Place the butter, granulated sugar, and light brown sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer and cream the ingredients on high speed. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula.

Add the vanilla and egg and mix on medium speed.

Add the flour mixture and mix on low speed just until batter is stiff -- don't overdo it!

Turn off the mixer and, using a large spoon or plastic spatula, fold in the chocolate chips and the walnuts, if desired.

Using a tablespoon, scoop about 2 spoonfuls of the dough into a ball and place on a baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, keeping the scoops about 2 inches apart. Using your fingers or the back of the spoon, press down on each ball of dough to slightly flatten. You should get about 9 cookies on each sheet.

Bake until golden brown, about 20 minutes. (Depending on the size of your oven, you may need to do this in batches.)

Using oven mitts or pot holders, remove the cookies from the oven and transfer with a plastic turner to wire racks to cool. Repeat with the remaining sheets, if necessary.

Be careful handling the hot baking sheets!
1. Preheat the oven to 350.

2. Whisk the flour, soda and salt together in a bowl.

3. In another large bowl, mix the butter with a wooden spoon to lighten it a bit and then mix in the sugars.

4. Add the water, vanilla and eggs to the butter mixture.

5. Stir in the flour mixture until just combined and then fold in the chocolate chips.

6. Using two soup spoons, drop the cookies 2 apart onto two nonstick or greased cookie sheets.

7. Bake for 8 minutes, rotating the sheets after 4 minutes.

8. Remove the cookies to a wire rack to cool, and repeat the process with the rest of the batter.
Heat the oven to 350.
Cream the butter and the sugars together in a bowl. Beat in the egg and vanilla.
Mix the baking soda, flour, and salt into the batter.
Stir in the chocolate chips.
Drop the dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto a parchment lined pan. Bake 8 minutes or until golden. Makes about 4 dozen cookies.
Step 1
Heat oven to 375 F.

Step 2
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or aluminum foil.


Step 3
With an electric mixer on medium-high, beat the butter, sugars, and vanilla for 3 minutes. Add the egg and beat until combined. In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and the baking soda. Reduce mixer speed to low and slowly add the flour mixture to the egg mixture until combined. Stir in the chocolate chips.

Step 4
Scoop the dough into tablespoon-size mounds and place on the prepared baking sheets, 2 inches apart. Bake until lightly browned at the edges, 12 to 15 minutes.


Step 5
Cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and cool completely.
Heat oven to 375F.
Combine flour, oats and baking soda; set aside. Beat butter and sugars in large bowl with mixer until light and fluffy. Blend in egg and vanilla. Gradually add flour mixture, beating well after each addition. Stir in chocolate and nuts.
Drop rounded tablespoonfuls of dough, 2 inches apart, onto baking sheets.
Bake 10 min. or until lightly browned. Cool on baking sheets 2 min. Remove to wire racks; cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350 F.
Microwave the butter for about 40 seconds. Butter should be completely melted but shouldn't be hot.
In a large bowl, mix butter with the sugars until well-combined.
Stir in vanilla and egg until incorporated.
Add the flour, baking soda, and salt. Mix until just combined. Dough should be soft and a little sticky but not overly sticky.
Stir in chocolate chips.
Scoop out 1.5 tablespoons of dough (medium cookie scoop) and place on baking sheet.

Bake for 7-9 minutes, or until cookies are set. They will be puffy and still look a little underbaked in the middle.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Microwave the butter for about 40 seconds to just barely melt it. It shouldnt be hot  but it should be almost entirely in liquid form.
Using a stand mixer or electric beaters, beat the butter with the sugars until creamy. Add the vanilla and the egg; beat on low speed until just incorporated  10-15 seconds or so (if you beat the egg for too long, the cookies will be stiff).
Add the flour, baking soda, and salt. Mix until crumbles form. Use your hands to press the crumbles together into a dough. It should form one large ball that is easy to handle (right at the stage between wet dough and dry dough). Add the chocolate chips and incorporate with your hands.
Roll the dough into 12 large balls (or 9 for HUGELY awesome cookies) and place on a cookie sheet. Bake for 9-11 minutes until the cookies look puffy and dry and just barely golden.Warning, friends: DO NOT OVERBAKE. This advice is probably written on every cookie recipe everywhere, but this is essential for keeping the cookies soft. Take them out even if they look like theyre not done yet (see picture in the post). Theyll be pale and puffy.
Let them cool on the pan for a good 30 minutes or so (I mean, okay, eat four or five but then let the rest of them cool). They will sink down and turn into these dense, buttery, soft cookies that are the best in all the land. These should stay soft for many days if kept in an airtight container. I also like to freeze them.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (see note about convection). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone liners.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or in a bowl using a handheld electric mixer, combine the butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, vanilla, salt, baking soda, and baking powder.
Mix on low speed to combine. Increase the speed to medium and mix for 4-5 minutes until the mixture is light and creamy, scraping the sides of the bowl as needed.
Add the egg and mix until evenly combined.
Add the flour and the chocolate chips (or chocolate chunks) and mix until combined and no dry streaks remain.
Scoop the cookie dough into rounded balls (about 2 tablespoons in size; I use my #40 cookie scoop), spacing them an inch or so apart on the prepared baking sheets.
Bake for 9-11 minutes until just very lightly golden (or no color at all) and set around the edges. Let cool for a few minutes on the baking sheet before moving to a wire rack to cool completely. Repeat with remaining cookie dough.
In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Whisk to combine, then add the chocolate chips and toss to coat.
In a large bowl, combine the coconut sugar, regular sugar, oil and water. Whisk until the sugar has incorporated into the oil and the mixture is smooth, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Add the flour mixture to the sugar mixture, then stir just until combined and no more flour is visible (dont overdo it).
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper for easy cleanup. Fill an ice cream scoop two-thirds with dough (or spoon the mixture into even 2-inch mounds), and place the dough onto one of the prepared sheets. Repeat with remaining dough, leaving several inches of space around each cookie.
Freeze the cookies on their pans for 30 minutes, or chill them for up to 24 hours in the refrigerator.
When youre ready to bake, preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Bake until the edges are just starting to turn golden, about 14 to 17 minutes. Place the baking sheet on a cooling rack and sprinkle the cookies with flaky salt, if using. Repeat with the remaining cookies.
Adjust an oven rack to the middle position. Preheat the oven to 350F. Line 3 baking sheets with aluminum foil, dull side up.

In a small bowl, whisk the flour, baking soda, and salt.

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, beat the butter on medium until creamy. Add the granulated and brown sugars and beat on medium until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg, vanilla, and water and mix on low to combine. Add the flour mixture and mix on low until combined. Add the chocolate and mix on low into the batter.

Form the dough into 3-ounce (100g) balls (a heaping 1/3 cup each). Place 4 balls an equal distance apart on a prepared pan and transfer to the freezer for 15 minutes before baking. After you put the first baking sheet in the oven, put the second one in the freezer.

Place the chilled baking sheet in the oven and bake 10 minutes, until the cookies are puffed slightly in the center. Lift the side of the baking sheet up about 4 inches and gently let it drop down against the oven rack, so the edges of the cookies set and the inside falls back down (this will feel wrong, but trust me). After the cookies puff up again in 2 minutes, repeat lifting and dropping the pan. Repeat a few more times to create ridges around the edge of the cookie. Bake 16 to 18 minutes total, until the cookies have spread out and the edges are golden brown but the centers are much lighter and not fully cooked.

Transfer the baking sheet to a wire rack; let cool completely before removing the cookies from the pan.
Preheat oven to 375F. Prepare a cookie sheet with parchment paper and set aside.

In a large mixing bowl, combine flour, baking soda and baking powder and set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together butter, sugars, salt and molasses on medium speed. Cream for 15 minutes until soft and lighter in color. Add eggs and vanilla and scrape sides of bowl thoroughly. Add flour mixture, creaming until just combined. Stir in chocolate chips.

Spoon dough into 48 small balls and place, 2 inches apart, onto prepared cookie sheet. (If freezing dough, transfer cookie sheet to freezer; once frozen, store dough balls in an airtight container or freezer bag for up to 2 months.) If baking cookies right away, immediately transfer cookie sheet to oven and bake until just barely golden on the edges, 9 to 11 minutes. Serve.
Cream butter, oil and sugars. Add eggs and beat until fluffy.
Add remaining ingredients.
Bake at 350 for 7-8 minutes.
To a medium bowl, whisk the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt together. Set aside.
To the bowl of a stand-up mixer with the paddle attachment (you can also do this with a hand-mixer or by hand in a medium/large bowl), add the melted butter, brown sugar and white sugar. Beat together until nice and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, until combined. Pour in the vanilla extract and beat once more.
In one batch, add the flour. You will probably have to lift up the head part of your mixer to be able to add it all at once. Cover the mixer with a clean kitchen towel and turn it on low speed. Mix until the flour is mostly combined and then increase speed until you no longer see any flecks of flour. Pour in the chocolate chunks and mix one last time. Transfer the dough to the fridge to chill for an hour or up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Using a medium cookie scoop, scoop out balls of dough. If its super chilled, you may need to push some dough into the scoop so its nice and compact and then release the lever. I like to add all the balls of cookie dough to a sheet of parchment versus scooping dough, as I bake.
Transfer 6 to 7 balls of dough onto the prepared baking sheet, spacing them a part because these do spread. Place in the oven and bake for about 7 to 8 minutes. If the dough is super cold, it may need up to 10 minutes to bake. They should be light to medium golden brown. Sprinkle with a few pinches of salt upon exiting the oven. Allow to cookies to cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes and then transfer to a cooling rack (they'll be too fragile to move when they exit the oven). Repeat until youve baked all the cookies.
To freeze, add the cookie dough balls to a baking sheet and stick in the freezer until very cold, about 20 minutes and then transfer to a freezer-safe plastic bag.
Preheat your oven to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper.
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment beat the butter until smooth. Add the sugars and beat until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl.
Add the eggs one at time and mix until well incorporated. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the vanilla and mix for about 30 seconds.
With the mixer on low speed, add the flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Mix until combined. 
Stir in the chocolate chips.
Scoop 2-inch balls of dough onto the cookie sheet. Bake for 12 minutes. The cookies are done when the edges are slightly golden brown. The top may look a little soft. That's ok! The cookies will continue to bake a little while they cool.
Place the butter and sugars into a bowl fitted with a paddle attachment and cream on a medium speed until the mixture is light smooth and light. This should take about 4 minutes. Scrape the bowl using a rubber spatula to make sure everything is mixed evenly. Alternatively you can also use a hand mixer. Combine the vanilla extract and eggs, adding the eggs one at a time, mixing fully after each addition. Scrape the bowl again.

In a separate bowl combine flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Add to the bowl of butter and eggs and mix until thoroughly combined. Add the chopped chocolate last, mixing it well.

Divide the dough balls into 1-ounce pieces. It should make between 36-48 depending on how large the dough is portioned. Bake on a cookie sheet at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 8-12 minutes, rotating the tray after the first 6.
In a mixing bowl cream together the butter and sugars until light and pale.
Add the egg and vanilla extract and beat until well incorporated.
Sieve the flour, baking soda and salt into the mixing bowl and mix together with the butter mixture until it forms into a cookie dough. Fold the chocolate chips through.
Roll about tablespoons worth of dough into balls and place on a lined or greased baking sheet.
Bake the cookies in a 190C | 375F oven for 7-10 minutes or until the edges begin to brown.
Leave the cookies to cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack.
To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or large mixing bowl and electric mixer) combine the butter, sugars, egg, vanilla, and beat on medium-high speed until creamed and well combined, about 4 minutes.
Stop, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and add the flour, pudding mix, baking soda, optional salt, and beat on low speed until just combined, about 1 minute.
Stop, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and add the chocolate chips, and beat on low speed until just combined, about 30 seconds.
Using a large cookie scoop, 1/4-cup measure, or your hands, form approximately 14 equal-sized mounds of dough, roll into balls, and flatten slightly. Tip  Strategically place a few chocolate chips right on top of each mound of dough by taking chips from the underside and adding them on top.
Place mounds on a large plate or tray, cover with plasticwrap, and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, up to 5 days. Do not bake with unchilled dough because cookies will bake thinner, flatter, and be more prone to spreading.
Preheat oven to 350F, line a baking sheet with a Silpat or spray with cooking spray. Place dough mounds on baking sheet, spaced at least 2 inches apart (I bake 8 cookies per sheet) and bake for about 11 minutes, or until edges have set and tops are just set, even if slightly undercooked, pale, and glossy in the center; dont overbake. Cookies firm up as they cool. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for about 10 minutes before serving. I let them cool on the baking sheet and dont use a rack.
Preheat oven to 350F degrees, place oven rack at middle position and line two baking sheets with parchment paper. Set aside.
Melt butter in microwave for 40 seconds until barely melted. You want the butter melted but not hot.
In large bowl, using hand mixer, or in bowl of stand mixer, combine melted butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar. Mix on low until creamy. Add the vanilla and mix until incorporated.
Add the egg and mix ONLY for 10-15 seconds, still on low speed. This is important as overbeating the mixture with the egg will make for a too-stiff batter. Turn off the stand mixer or beaters.
In small bowl or parchment envelope, combine flour, baking soda and salt.
Add about 1/3 flour mixture and mix on low for just a few seconds, the flour won't be completely mixed in. Continue to add flour mixture until fully incorporated and beat, still on low until completely mixed. Your cookie dough, at this point, should hold together easily when pressed together, but not be too wet. If it seems too wet, feel free to add another tablespoon of flour at a time until it resembles photos (I've never had to do this, though).
Add 1/2 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips and mix on low about 5 seconds, just until mixed throughout. If you like a lot of chips in your cookies, add an additional 1/4 cup chips.
Cook's note: You can also use a combination of chocolate chips and chocolate chunks. If you like really sweet cookies, feel free to use milk chocolate chips. I've experimented with milk chocolate, semi-sweet, and bitter chocolate. Semi-sweet seems to please everyone.
Using a 2" cookie scoop, loosely scoop dough and place 2 1/2" apart (6 cookies per baking sheet). Place one cookie sheet in the oven on middle rack and bake for 9-11 minutes until cookies are poofed and still white. They will not look done, you might barely see golden color around edges of some cookies. (I've tested these over and over and with my oven, 10 minutes is exactly perfect. The cookies become completely poofed and white at about 9 1/2 minutes, an additional 30-45 seconds ensures additional cooking inside while still being soft when cooled.)
Remove cookies from oven and leave on baking sheet for additional 15-30 minutes. While one baking sheet is cooling, bake the remaining 6 cookies on the second baking sheet in same manner.
While the cookies cool, they will kind of sink and darken on the baking sheet. After 15-30 minutes, they're set and can be served or stored in an air-tight container for up to 3 days. The cookies are absolutely perfect about 4 hours after cooking. During this time, the flavors meld perfectly and the softness settles and becomes less "wet" and more chewy.
Cream together melted butter and sugars in a large bowl or stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. 

Add in the vanilla, egg, and egg yolk and beat until light and creamy. 

In a separate, medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, and salt. Add the flour mixture to the wet ingredients a little at a time, mixing between each addition. 

Fold in chocolate chips with a wooden spoon. 

Cover and chill in the fridge for 1 hour.



Preheat oven to 325F and measure dough into 1/4 cup-sized balls, place balls on an ungreased cookie sheet at least 3 inches apart. Bake for 15 to 17 minutes until the edges are golden brown. Let the cookies cool on the pan.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
In a large bowl cream the melted butter, brown sugar and white sugar for 1-2 minutes. You can use a hand mixer or a stand mixer for this job. Add in the egg and vanilla. Mix just until the egg is combined.
Add in the flour, baking soda and salt. Mix just until combined. The dough should be thick and dry. It should be sticking to your hands. Add in just enough flour to achieve this. If it sticks just slightly to your fingers that is ok, just not making a mess all over your hands when you roll the dough into cookie balls.
Mix in the chocolate chips either by hand or with a few rounds of your mixer. Roll the dough into 2 inch cookie balls. Place at least 2 inches apart on your baking sheet. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until the edges are slightly browned and the centers look underdone. Leave on the baking sheet for 5-10 minutes before removing to cool completely. These cookies will look puffy when they come out of the oven but will settle down as they cool.
Preheat oven to 375.
In stand-up mixer, cream butter, sugar and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla and beat until combined. Mix in baking soda and salt and gradually add flour. Stir in chocolate chips.
Bake on ungreased baking sheet for 9-11 minutes.
Preheat oven to 180C / 350F (standard) or 160C/320F (fan / convection). Place oven shelf in the middle of the oven.
Line 2 trays with baking / parchment paper.
Whisk the flour, salt and baking soda in a bowl.
Place the butter in a large heatproof bowl. Microwave until the butter is almost fully melted (25 sec for room temp butter, 40 sec for fridge cold butter on high).
Whisk to finish melting the butter. (Note 2)
Add brown and white sugar, whisk energetically for 15 seconds.
Add egg, yolk and vanilla, whisk well for 15 seconds.
Add flour mixture and mix until flour is almost fully incorporated.

Add 1 cup chocolate chips, stir to disperse and flour is fully incorporated. Batter will be quite loose.
Stand for 5 minutes for batter to firm up a bit so it is scoop-able into mounds. (Note 3)
LARGE COOKIES: Scoop up a level ice cream scoop / 3 tbsp / 1/4 cup (Note 4) and place on baking trays 5cm / 2" apart - 13 balls. Top with remaining choc chips (these remain on surface once baked = prettier).

SMALL COOKIES (26 - 30): Scoop up 1.5 tbsp (heaped tbsp measure) OR 1/2 an ice cream scoop (this works well). Place on baking trays 4cm / 1.75" apart, top with choc chops.

Bake 1 tray at a time. LARGE COOKIES: Bake for 8 minutes, then rotate the tray and bake for 3 minutes (11 minutes in total). SMALL COOKIES: Bake 6 minutes, turn then bake 3 minutes (9 min total). The cookies should be just golden on the edges and pale golden on top. They will be slightly puffed up.

Cool on the tray - they finish cooking. They will lose the puffiness while resting. Dig in and get your cookie fix!
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.
Lightly grease (or line with parchment) two baking sheets.
In a large bowl, combine the sugars, butter, shortening, salt, vanilla and almond extracts, vinegar and baking soda..
Beat until smooth and creamy.
Beat in the egg, beating until smooth.
Scrape bottom and sides of bowl with a spatula to make sure all is thoroughly combined.
Mix in the flour, then the chocolate chips.
Use a spoon or a tablespoon cookie scoop to scoop 1 1/4 " balls of dough onto prepared baking sheets, leaving 2" between them on all sides, they'll spread.
Bake cookies for 8-9 minutes, till the edges are chestnut brown and the tops are light golden brown.
Remove from the oven and cool 'til they're set.
Move to a baking rack.
Repeat with remaining dough.
Preheat oven to 350F.  In the bowl of a stand mixer, use the paddle attachment to cream together the softened butter and sugars on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes.  Add egg and vanilla, and mix until combined, about 1 minute.
Add in the flour, cornstarch, baking soda and salt, and beat on medium-low speed until combined.  (I break the rules and usually just sprinkle these dry ingredients evenly over the top of the dough and then mix them in.  But if youd like to make sure theyre super evenly mixed, just whisk together the dry ingredients in a separate bowl before adding them to the dough.)
Fold in the chocolate chips by hand until just combined.
Shape the dough into balls that are about 1-inch in diameter, and place them on a parchment-covered baking sheet.  Chill in the refrigerator for at least 10-20 minutes, or until the dough is chilled through.  (This will help prevent the cookies from spreading out too flat when they bake.)
Bake for 10-12 minutes until the edges are just set. The centers may look slightly undercooked. Cool cookies on the baking sheet for about 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to finish cooling. Serve immediately or store in a sealed container for up to 1 week. You can also freeze the cookies for up to 3-4 months.
In a large bowl of a stand mixer, cream together the butter, brown sugar and sugar with a paddle attachment until creamy, about 1 minute. Add in the egg and egg yolk, plus the vanilla and beat to combine. Add in the espresso powder, soda, cornstarch, salt and flour and beat until a soft dough forms. Fold in the chocolate chips.
Chill the mixture covered in the fridge for at LEAST 2 hours, up to 3 days long. Chilling is mandatory and prevents spreading the cookie dough.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with silicone liners or parchment paper. Drop rounded Tablespoonfuls of dough onto the baking sheets about 2" apart. I used a 2-ounce cookie scoop, but if you don't have one, simply use a  cup measuring cup and stack the cookie dough higher rather than wider so when it spreads, it stays puffy in the middle.
Bake for approx. 9-12 minutes, rotating pans halfway through baking time to ensure even cooking. Cookies may appear slightly soft in the center - they will continue to cook as they cool. Do not over-bake! Cool completely on the cookie sheets before serving.

Set the oven to 350F
Cut the butter into tablespoon pieces and put in a large microwave safe mixing bowl. Microwave for about 3-40 seconds until it's mostly melted.
Beat in the two sugars until light and fluffy, a couple of minutes.
Blend in the egg and vanilla, and then stir in the dry ingredients, When the dry ingredients are almost incorporated, go ahead and add the chocolate chips, and continue to mix just until everything is nicely incorporated.
I use a 1 7/8 cookie scoop to scoop up the dough, and then roll it in my hands to make a round ball. You should have enough dough for about 14 cookies. If yours are smaller or larger, adjust the baking time accordingly.
Place on an un-greased cookie sheet, about 2 inches apart.
Bake for 11 minutes. The cookies will be puffy and pale, with just a few cracks starting to be visible along the edges.
Let cool on the pan a few minutes and then move to a rack. Dig in while they are warm, or wait for them to cool, you are the boss!
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl; set aside.
In a large bowl, beat butter and sugars on medium speed of a hand mixer until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition until smooth; beat in vanilla. Add dry ingredients, and beat until just combined; stir in chocolate chips. Roll cookies into about 20 4-ounce balls and place on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet about 4-inches apart. Refrigerate for 2 hours.
Heat oven to 350. Bake cookies, rotating pans halfway through, about 15 minutes. Cool before serving.
Sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt; set aside.
In a medium bowl, cream together the melted butter, brown sugar and white sugar until well blended (1-2 minutes). Beat in the vanilla, egg, and egg yolk until light and creamy. Mix in the sifted ingredients in three batches until just blended. Fold in the chips by hand.
Rolls 2 tablespoons of dough into a ball that is slightly taller than wide and place on a plate or tray. Cover tightly and chill for at least 2 hours, but overnight for best results (Ive refrigerated for up to a week).
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Line cookie sheets with silicone baking mats (or parchment paper); set aside.
Place cookie dough onto the prepared cookie sheets, about 2 inches apart.
Bake for 8 minutes or until edges are barely golden (will look underbaked). Cool on baking sheets for 10 minutes before transferring to wire racks to cool completely. Store at room temperature in an airtight container.
1. Heat the oven to 375 degrees F. With a wooden spoon, mix together the melted butter and sugars in a large bowl, until homogenous, about a minute. Add the egg and vanilla and stir until combined.

2. Mix in the flour, milk powder, salt, baking powder, and baking soda until just combined. Add the chips and mix until evenly distributed.

3. Portion 2  ounce scoops of dough about 2 to 3 inches apart onto a parchment paper-lined baking tray and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, until golden brown. Cool completely on the pan.
Preheat oven to 350 F.
Cream butter then add sugars and mix until light and fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla. Mix until well-combined. Add flour, oats, salt, and baking soda to butter mixture. Mix well and then stir in chocolate chips. Scoop chocolate chip cookie dough onto a cookie sheet spacing well apart to allow room for the cookie to spread lightly. Bake for about 10 - 12 minutes or until lightly browned.
Optional: sprinkle a pinch of salt onto cookies right out of the oven while still warm.
Sift flours, baking soda, baking powder and salt into a bowl and set aside.
Using a mixer with a paddle attachment, cream butter and sugars until light and fluffy  3 to 5 minutes.
Reduce speed and add eggs one at a time, then add vanilla.
Slowly add dry ingredients, mixing until just combined.
Fold in chocolate chips. Refrigerate dough for24-36 hours.
DO NOT SKIP THIS REFRIGERATION.
When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350.
Drop spoonfuls of dough onto baking sheet. Bake for 10-12 minutes.
Cool on wire rack.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line baking sheets with parchment paper or baking mats, set aside.
Place butter in a microwave safe bowl and heat for 30-45 seconds (full strength) or until it's almost completely melted but has a few soft pieces left.
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together flour, baking soda, cornstarch, and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer (or a large mixing bowl with a hand mixer), beat together butter, sugars and vanilla for 1 minute. Add the eggs one at a time, mixing in between additions. Turn mixing speed to low and gradually add in the dry ingredients. Beat until just combined or until a soft dough forms. Fold in the chocolate chips with a spatula. Now you can either bake the dough straight away, chill for 3 hours and bake, store in the refrigerator for up to 5 days or freeze it.
To bake the cookies, using a standard size cookie scoop (approximately 1.5 tbsp.) to form balls of dough. Place onto the prepared sheets, leaving at least 2 inches in between. Sprinkle with sea salt if desired.
Place in the oven and bake for 11-13 minutes, rotating the sheet half way through the baking process. Remove from oven when cookies are golden brown in color around the edges. Let cookies cool on pan for 3-4 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 350 F or 180 C and line a baking tray with parchment paper.
Cream together the butter and sugars for a few minutes or until ligher and fluffy.
Beat in the vanilla extract and egg, until nice and smooth.
Stir in the baking soda and salt.
Then add the all-purpose flour in batches rather than all at once, just to combine.
Finally, fold in the chocolate chunks and any other add-in until well-distributed through out the batter.
Place 2 tbsp sized mounds of dough onto the prepared sheet, 2 inches apart.
Sprinkle the tops with a pinch of sea salt before placing the tray in the oven for 9-11 minutes or until the chocolate has melted, the dough is slightly golden brown and less glossy than before.
Cool for a couple minutes on a wire rack before serving.
Cream butter and sugars together in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, until light and fluffy. Scrape the bowl, beat again on high for one minute. Add the eggs and vanilla and beat until well blended, about another minute on medium-high speed. Whisk flour, salt and baking soda together in separate bowl. Add to butter mixture and combine with a spatula or wooden spoon (or very briefly with paddle attachment) until just blended. Add the chocolate chips and stir till combined. The dough will be stiff.
Portion into 1 oz (48 g) sized balls. This is a tedious task, but it makes for beautiful and uniform cookies that bake evenly. If you have a digital scale, this is easy; if you have no scale, use a small ice cream scoop or some other uniform measuring device. Chill the portioned balls for at least one hour, or keep in the fridge for weeks or freeze for months.
Preheat oven to 375. Place portioned balls nicely spaced on an ungreased or parchment-lined jelly roll pan. Sprinkle with sea salt if using. Bake for 11 minutes, rotating the sheet halfway through cooking. Keep a close watch. You want to remove the cookies from the oven when they still look slightly rawyou will think you are removing them too early. The cookies will continue cooking as they sit on the tray out of the oven. Let cookies cool completely on tray before removing.
Whisk dry ingredients together in a medium sized bowl.
Then, melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Whisk butter and remove from heat as soon as the butter begins to brown. Transfer the butter to a bowl to prevent burning. Set aside to cool for a few minutes.
Beat the butter and sugars until thoroughly blended, about 2 minutes. Beat in the egg, yolk, and vanilla until combined. Add the dry ingredients slowly and beat on low-speed just until combined. Stir in the chocolate chips.
If you can, chill your dough for 1 hour.
Scoop dough onto baking sheets with an ice cream scoop, and sprinkle sea salt on top. Bake at 350 degrees F, for 7 to 10 minutes. You want the cookies to look under baked in the center, but lightly browned around the outside. Remember, they still cook when you take them out of the oven!
Preheat oven to 375 F. If using convection, preheat to 375 as well.
For regular oven, place rack in middle of oven. When using a convection oven, you should be able to bake on all racks at one time.
Cut butter into pieces ( about 2 tablespoons each) and place in mixing bowl. I use a Kitchen Aid and power it on 2 (low).
After a few seconds, add granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla extract. Mix on low speed until creamy (this takes just a few seconds). The butter and the sugars should be mixed enough so no chunks of butter are visible.
Add eggs, beating just until incorporated and smooth. Never turn the beaters on high.
Using a spatula, scrape down the sides of the bowl and bottom of the bowl to insure all ingredients are incorporated.
Dump 2 cups of the flour, soda, salt and chocolate chips all together into bowl with butter mixture.
Add the remaining 3/4 cup of flour to the top of this mixture. Slowly mix the dry ingredients and the chocolate chips together. I have had great success with simply PULSING the mixer at this point. Do not over mix. Turn the dough with a rubber spatula so the bottom of the dough is mixed into the top of the dough. This will insure the flour is mixed in properly and the chips are distributed evenly.
If the dough is sticky, add an additional 2-3 tablespoons of flour to the dough. Remove the bowl from the stand if using a stand mixer, and fold in the flour. This is only necessary if the dough is sticky.
Using a cookie scoop, drop onto un-greasedbaking sheets, or baking sheets lined with parchment paper. Place 6 scoops of dough on each baking sheet.
Flatten slightly with the palm of your hand.
If using convection, bake for 7-10 minutes until golden brown.
If using regular (non convection) oven, bake at 375 for 10-12 minutes.
Cookies should be slightly golden and the cookie should not be wet on top.
Cool on baking sheets completely.
1. Sift flours, baking soda, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Set aside.

2. Using a mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter and sugars together until very light, about 5 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla. Reduce speed to low, add dry ingredients and mix until just combined, 5 to 10 seconds.

3. Drop chocolate pieces in and incorporate them without breaking them. Press plastic wrap against dough and refrigerate for 24 to 36 hours. Dough may be used in batches, and can be refrigerated for up to 72 hours.

4. When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Set aside.

5. Scoop 6 3-1/2-ounce mounds of dough (the size of generous golf balls) onto baking sheet, making sure to turn horizontally any chocolate pieces that are poking up; it will make for a more attractive cookie. Sprinkle lightly with sea salt and bake until golden brown but still soft, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to a wire rack for 10 minutes, then slip cookies onto another rack to cool a bit more. Repeat with remaining dough, or reserve dough, refrigerated, for baking remaining batches the next day. Eat warm, with a big napkin.
Start by melting butter and setting butter aside to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees and line baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, whisk together flour and baking soda.
In the bowl of a stand mixer with paddle attachment, combine melted and cooled butter, both sugars, vanilla and salt. Beat on medium speed until well combined, about 2 minutes.
Add egg and egg yolk, scraping down sides of bowl as necessary.
Add in flour mixture and continue mixing until incorporated.
Add in chocolate chips and give a final stir.
Dough will be soft, but should be firm enough to shape into balls.
Place cookie dough on baking sheet and top with additional milk chocolate chips.
Bake about 9 minutes, just until edges are a light golden brown.
Don't over bake as cookie will continue baking as it cools.
Preheat oven to 350F (177C).
Beat butter and sugars on high for 5-7 mins until very light and fluffy.
Add eggs one at a time, beating well between additions. Add vanilla.
Combine flour, salt and baking soda in a bowl and whisk together. Slowly add flour mixture to butter mixture and beat until well incorporated.
Add raisins, chips and walnuts, mix just until combined.
Line a rimmed lined cookie sheet with parchment paper. Scoop out dough with an ice cream scoop. 5 to a tray.
Bake for 13 mins, until golden around the edges and centers look dry.
Let cool on tray on counter for 5 mins. They will set up and continue cooking on the hot tray.
Transfer to cooling rack to cool completely
Preheat oven to 350F
Sift together the flour and baking soda, set aside.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar, and white sugar. Beat in the instant pudding mix until blended. Stir in the eggs and vanilla. Blend in the flour mixture. Finally, stir in the chocolate chips and nuts.
Drop cookies by rounded spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in the preheated oven. Edges should be golden brown.
Preheat the oven to 350F (180C). Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.



In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda and salt. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat the butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and mix on low speed until blended. Slowly add the flour mixture and mix just until incorporated. Switch to a wooden spoon and stir in the chocolate chips.



Using a small ice cream scoop or heaping tablespoon, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, spacing the dough mounds 2 inches (5 cm) apart.



Bake the cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until the bottoms and edges are lightly browned and the tops feel firm when lightly touched, 10-13 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes, then transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool completely.
Adjust 2 oven racks to be in the center of the oven. Turn the oven on to 350F. Generously grease the baking sheets with shortening.

Put the flour, baking soda and salt in a medium mixing bowl. Stir with the wooden spoon to mix the ingredients. Set the bowl aside.

Put the butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar in a large mixing bowl. With an electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat until the mixture is well blended. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until the mixture is smooth and creamy. (As you beat, turn off the mixer occasionally and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula.) With the mixer set on low speed, gradually add the flour mixture and beat until blended. Stir in the chocolate chips.

Drop the dough by very rounded tablespoonfuls onto the greased baking sheets, spacing the mounds about 2 inches apart.

Place the baking sheets in the preheated oven. Bake until the cookies are nicely browned, 11 to 15 minutes.

Put hot pads and cooling racks on your counter. Using pot holders, remove the baking sheets from the oven and put them on the hot pads. Let the cookies cool for 3 to 4 minutes. Carefully slip a spatula under each cookie and transfer it to a rack. Let the cookies cool completely.
Preheat an oven to 350F. Spread the walnuts in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet. Place in the oven and toast, stirring occasionally, until they are fragrant and toasted, about 10 minutes. Let cool, then coarsely chop. 

In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda and salt. In another bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed, beat together the butter and the granulated and brown sugars until the mixture is light in texture, about 3 minutes. Beat in the whole egg and egg yolk, then the corn syrup and vanilla. Reduce the speed to low and gradually add the flour mixture, beating just until smooth and stopping to scrape down the bowl as needed. With a spoon, stir in the chopped chocolate and chopped walnuts, distributing them evenly throughout the dough. Cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 2 hours or up to 6 hours. 

Position racks in the center and upper third of the oven and preheat to 350F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Drop rounded tablespoonfuls of the chilled dough onto the baking sheets, spacing them about 1 inch apart. 

Place 1 sheet on each oven rack and bake, switching the pans between the racks and rotating them 180 degrees halfway through baking, until the cookies are lightly browned, 8 to 10 minutes. Let cool for 3 minutes on the baking sheets, then transfer to wire racks to cool slightly before serving.
Preheat the oven to 350F (180C). Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda and salt. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat the butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and mix on low speed until blended. Slowly add the flour mixture and mix just until incorporated. Switch to a wooden spoon and stir in the chocolate chips.
Using a small ice cream scoop or heaping tablespoon, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, spacing the dough mounds 2 inches (5 cm) apart.
Bake the cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until the bottoms and edges are lightly browned and the tops feel firm when lightly touched, 10-13 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes, then transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool completely.
1-Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F.
2-Line 2 rimless baking sheets with parchment paper (or silicone baking mats)
3-In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda and salt and set aside.
4-In a large bowl, combine the butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar.
5-Beat with a wooden spoon until smooth (I use my stand mixer).
6-Add the egg and vanilla and beat until well blended.
7-Slowly add the dry ingredients and stir just until incorporated.
8-Stir in the chocolate chips.
9-Drop the dough by heaping tablespoons onto the prepared baking sheets, spacing the cookies 2 apart.
10-Bake the cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until the bottoms and edges are lightly browned and the tops feel firm when lightly touched, 10 to 13 minutes.
11-Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes, then transfer them to wire racks to cool completely.
12-Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.
Cream together butter, sugar and brown sugar.
Add eggs and vanilla and mix well.
Mix together flour, oat flour, salt, baking powder and baking soda.
Stir in chocolate chips, grated Hershey bar and nuts (if using).
Drop by 1 1/2" balls onto ungreased cookie sheet.
Bake at 375 for 6-10 minutes.
1.
Make the Dough: Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat to 350F (180C). Set aside a handful of chopped chocolate (about 2 ounces; 55g) and place the remainder in a medium bowl. Sift flour on top and toss together. Combine butter, white sugar, brown sugar, vanilla, salt, baking soda, baking powder, and nutmeg in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low to moisten, then increase to medium and beat until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. With mixer running, add egg and continue beating only until smooth. Reduce speed to low, add flour/chocolate all at once, and mix to form a stiff dough.

2.
Portion the Dough: Divide in 2-tablespoon portions (about 1 1/2 ounces or 40g each) and round each one into a smooth ball. (If you like, portioned dough can be refrigerated in a heavy-duty zipper-lock bag up to 1 week, or frozen 6 months. Stand at room temperature until quite soft, about 70F or 21C, and proceed as directed.)

3.
To Bake: Arrange portions on a parchment-lined half sheet pan, leaving 2 inches between cookies to account for spread. Garnish each with reserved chocolate and a pinch of kosher salt. Bake until puffed and pale gold around the edges but steamy in the middle, about 15 minutes. For crunchy cookies, continue baking until golden, 3 to 5 minutes more. Cool directly on baking sheet until crumb is set, about 5 minutes. Enjoy warm or store in an airtight container up to 2 days at room temperature.
Combine melted butter and sugars in a large bowl. Stir very well.
Add egg and egg yolk, stir well.
Stir in vanilla extract. Set aside.
In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together flour, cornstarch, baking soda, and salt.
Gradually add flour mixture to wet ingredients  stir well so that all the flour is absorbed.
Stir in chocolate chips.
Place dough in refrigerator and chill for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350F (177C) and prepare cookie sheets by lining with parchment paper.
Scoop dough by rounded 1 1/2 Tablespoon onto prepared cookie sheets, placing at least 2 apart.
Bake on 350F (177C) for 11 minutes  cookies may still seem slightly soft in the centers, that is OK, they will cook completely on the cookie sheets. Dont over-bake or your cookies will be too hard.
If desired, gently press additional chocolate chips into the tops of the warm cookies.
Allow to cool completely on cookie sheets.
Mix together the flour, salt, and baking soda. Set aside.
In a stand mixer, mix the butter until smooth.
Add the sugars and mix until light and fluffy.
Add the eggs one at a time, mixing in between additions. Mix in the vanilla.
Mix in half of the flour mixture until just combined. Add the rest of the flour mixture and mix again until just combined.
Fold in the chocolate.
Use a large cookie scoop or an ice cream scoop to scoop out the dough onto a parchment lined baking sheet. Only put 6 cookies at a time on the baking sheet to allow for spreading.
Bake for 10-11 minutes until golden around the edges. Let cool on baking sheet before moving to a wire rack.
reheat oven to 350 degrees F. In a large bowl, cream butter and sugars until they are smooth/creamy. Next, add eggs and vanilla.  Blend well, until smooth/creamy. Now add flour, then salt and baking soda on top  mix until all the dry ingredients are just blended-Do Not Over Mix! Last, add chocolate chips.  Fold the chocolate chips into the dough, until just blended. Do not over mix the chocolate chips with the dough. Place heaping round tablespoons of dough on a ungreased cookie sheet, approximately one inch apart.  I use The Pampered Chefs Medium size scooper for the dough, its the perfect size and I never have to touch the dough ~ love that! Place cookies in the oven on middle rack and bake for 9-11 minutes, depending on your oven. Bake until cookies turn a light golden brown. Remove, place cookies on rack to cool.
Position 2 racks in the center of the oven, and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment.

Whisk together the flour, baking soda and 1 teaspoon salt in a large bowl.

Beat the butter and both sugars on medium-high speed in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment (or in a large bowl if using a handheld mixer) until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add the eggs, one at time, beating after each addition to incorporate. Beat in the vanilla. Scrape down the side of the bowl as needed. Reduce the speed to medium, add the flour mixture and beat until just incorporated. Stir in the chocolate chips.

Scoop 12 heaping tablespoons of dough about 2 inches apart onto each prepared baking sheet. Roll the dough into balls with slightly wet hands. Bake, rotating the cookie sheets from upper to lower racks halfway through, until golden but still soft in the center, 12 to 15 minutes (the longer the cook time, the crunchier the cookies). Let cool for a few minutes on the baking sheet, and then transfer to a rack to cool completely.

Let the baking sheets cool completely, scoop the remaining dough onto 1 sheet and bake. Store the cookies in a tightly sealed container at room temperature for up to 5 days.
1
Heat oven to 350F. Mix butter, sugars, vanilla and eggs in large bowl using spoon. Stir in flour, baking soda and salt. Stir in chocolate chips.
2
Drop dough by rounded measuring tablespoonfuls about 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheet.
3
Bake 12 to 15 minutes or until light brown. Cool slightly. Remove from cookie sheet to wire rack; cool.
